<content>Rescue teams searching for two climbers missing for more than a month on Ben Nevis have recovered the bodies of a man and a woman.Experienced climbers Tim Newton, 27, and Rachel Slater, 24, from Bradford, West Yorkshire, were reported missing on 15 February after failing to return from a weekend climb.Multiple searches by rescue teams have been carried out for them ever since, with some efforts hampered by hazardous weather and avalanche risks.Police  said: “Following a report from a member of the public, the bodies of a man and a woman have been recovered in the Ben Nevis area this evening. Formal identification is taking place and the families of missing climbers Rachel Slater and Tim Newton have been informed.”The alarm was raised for the pair on Monday 15 February when they were reported to be overdue in returning from an expedition. It was believed they had been camping in a green tent behind the Charles Inglis Clark memorial hut on the north side of the mountain.A hunt was launched, involving police, mountain rescue teams and search and rescue dogs, as fears for their safety grew. Climbers and walkers in the area were also called on to share information with officials to help with the search and they readily exchanged information on climbing forums and social media sites.But severe weather – including sub-zero temperatures, high winds and falling snow – hampered search efforts in the early stages.This week, it emerged that an ice axe had been found below the Shroud/Boomers Requiem area, where mountain rescuers have been searching for the couple. Slater was a graduate of Manchester University and employed as an environmental consultant near Bradford. She spent some time living and climbing in Canada, where her parents are still based. Newton, originally from Leicester, studied physics at Manchester and Leeds universities. He joined Hinckley  Club in Leicestershire in 2010 before he moved away to university, with fellow climbers there calling him a natural. Their families have previously praised the overwhelming response from members of the public and the climbing community in helping to search for the two. News of the discovery of two bodies sparked a flurry of responses on social media. Writing on Police Scotland’s Highlands and Islands Facebook page, Laura MacDonald said: “Such sad news for all involved. Big respect for the mountain rescue team who searched for them tirelessly in all weathers. Rest in peace xxx” Christine Hogg wrote: “Such sad news but hopefully their families will have some closure now and will at least be able to lay them to rest. Well done to the searchers who have worked tirelessly to find them. RIP and condolences to their families. xx” Fi Fox said: “Very sad news. RIP thoughts are with family and friends.” Karen Blanchard added: “Prayers with the families.”Lochaber mountain rescue team, who recovered the bodies, posted a tribute to the couple online. They said: “I am sure that everyone will join us in offering our thoughts and sincere condolences to the families and friends of Rachel and Tim. They were well-known, experienced and respected climbers and their plight has touched so many people over the last few weeks. “We have been overwhelmed by the help and support we have received over the last few weeks as we tried to get some clues to where Rachel and Tim may have been going on the day they went missing. We would like to thank the whole climbing community for engaging and assisting, even when it was only to eliminate some of the small clues we thought we had obtained.” The team also thanked Police Scotland and other mountain rescue and search teams involved.</content>
<class_name>Scotland,Mountaineering,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T00:01:30+0000</date>
<title>Two bodies found in search for Ben Nevis couple</title>
<content>Two women have been arrested in connection with a suspected double murder in Canterbury, Kent.The suspects, aged 18 and 35, were held on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.The victims, named in reports as Natasha Sadler-Ellis, 40, and 47-year-old Simon Gorecki, sustained fatal injuries during an altercation at about 7.30pm on Tuesday.Two other people, males aged 17 and 20, also suffered injuries. The teenager was critically ill but is now stable and conscious; the 20-year-old has been discharged.A 53-year-old man is being held on suspicion of murder as detectives from the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate investigate the deaths.Magistrates have granted officers extra time to question him, and a warrant for further detention will expire just after midnight on Friday, Kent constabulary said.A tent had been erected outside the property as forensic officers examine the scene.Postmortems are expected to take place on Thursday.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:13:53+0100</date>
<title>Two further arrests in Canterbury double murder investigation</title>
<content>An east London man has admitted sending thousands of tweets to encourage terrorism and in support of jihadists fighting with Islamic State.Mohammed Moshin Ameen, 23, posted thousands of tweets between May and October 2015, using various different accounts. At an earlier hearing, prosecutor Jessica Hart told the court that the posts “encourage and glorify acts of terrorism, in particular the actions of Isil [another name used for Isis], and invoke support for that group”.Ameen pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to five counts of encouraging the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism on Twitter. He admitted a further charge of inviting support for Isis, as a proscribed organisation, between 4 and 6 October 2015. He also pleaded guilty to disseminating a terrorist publication, relating to a link to a video entitled For the Sake of Allah posted on Twitter last September. Ameen appeared in court via videolink from Wandsworth prison wearing a grey sweatshirt and spoke only to confirm his name and enter his pleas. The common serjeant of London, Richard Marks QC, remanded him in custody until sentencing on 28 April.Ameen was arrested by the Met’s counter-terrorism command in October.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:19:05+0100</date>
<title>London man admits sending tweets encouraging terrorism</title>
<content>A lorry driver clasped the hand of a young cyclist and pleaded with her to “hold on” as she lay mortally wounded under the wheels of his lorry, a court has heard.Vincent Doyle, 45, is on trial at the Old Bailey accused of causing the death of German postgraduate student Janina Gehlau by careless driving on 17 October 2014. He denies the charge.Gehlau, 26, from Düsseldorf, was moving up a cycle lane on Farringdon Road when she was crushed under the lorry as Doyle turned left at the busy Ludgate Circus junction in central London, the court has heard.Doyle had been stationary at a red light for 23 seconds and should have had up to five seconds to spot her in his mirrors if they had been adjusted properly, the prosecution alleges.Gehlau’s widower, Marcel, and other close family members sat in court with a German translator as Doyle told jurors that he only noticed her after he felt “a bump”.Doyle said he had held a spotless driving licence for 20 years and had begun riding a tractor from the age of 14.On the day of the accident he had been on his way to a site in Pudding Lane in the City to pick up his second load of the day.The first he knew of Gehlau’s position at the lights was when he felt a bump, he said.Despite not seeing her before then, Doyle insisted he had checked his mirrors “five or six times” as he waited for the lights to change.The driver told jurors how he went to Gehlau’s aid and waited with her until the ambulance arrived to take her to hospital.He said: “At first I was angry, thinking ‘what is this person doing?’ but once I got closer I saw how injured she was.“I was taking her pulse, chatting to her all the time. I was holding her hand, telling her ‘please hang on’. We were chatting away. And then she died. She died just as the ambulance got there.”On how the accident had affected him, he said: “I had a nervous breakdown last year. I was in a psychiatric hospital for eight months.“I was interviewed by police. Afterwards I started building my life and got on with it. I thought, ‘no, I can handle this’, but once they charged me ... My body basically gave way. It could not take any more stress.”Doyle of Brent, north London, told jurors he always carried out safety checks before taking the Foden truck out on the road.As a lorry driver he would check his mirrors more than ordinary motorists, although he was not aware of Trixi mirrors – convex roadside mirrors – at the time as he had spent seven years in Ireland, he said.After the crash, he said he had been mistaken when he repeatedly told investigators that the lights at the junction had been green.He explained: “After the accident my head was all over the place. I couldn’t exactly remember what happened.”Cross-examining, Alison Hunter suggested that since he could not even remember having stopped, it was not true that he checked his mirrors five or six times.Doyle replied: “It is true. I’m a professional driver.”The trial continues.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T19:28:37+0100</date>
<title>Lorry driver tells court how he pleaded with injured cyclist to 'hold on'</title>
<content>A British man who posed smiling for a photo with a hijacker on board an EgyptAir flight has said he did it to take “a closer look” at the apparent explosives belt, adding: “I figured if his bomb was real I’d nothing to lose anyway.”Ben Innes, 26, was one of three passengers and four crew held to the end of a hostage siege, after Seif Eldin Mustafa hijacked the EgyptAir flight bound for Cairo from Alexandria and forced it to be redirected to .The plane landed at Larnaca airport, where Innes was snapped standing next to Mustafa – who was still wearing what he claimed to be an explosives belt – in the cabin of the Airbus 320.The bomb was later found to be fake.Innes is a health and safety auditor from Leeds, living in Aberdeen. He was returning home on a business trip when flight MS181 was seized.He spoke to  about his motivations.“I’m not sure why I did it, I just threw caution to the wind while trying to stay cheerful in the face of adversity. I figured if his bomb was real I’d nothing to lose anyway, so took a chance to get a closer look at it.“I got one of the cabin crew to translate for me and asked him if I could do a selfie with him. He just shrugged OK, so I stood by him and smiled for the camera while a stewardess did the snap. It has to be the best selfie ever.”Innes was among the last passengers to be released by Mustafa, after the hijacker freed most of those on board. “After about half an hour at Larnaca I asked for a photo with him as we were sitting around waiting. I thought, why not? If he blows us all up it won’t matter anyway.”On closer inspection, Innes suspected that Mustafa’s explosives device was likely to be fake. “So I decided to go back to my seat and plot my next move.”He and the remaining hostages were later released.Innes’ stunt was decried by security experts, praised by relatives, and said to be “totally in character” by friends.“Only Ben could get a selfie! #proud,” reportedly tweeted Sarah Innes, a relative. Her account was later deleted.The image has been widely described as a “selfie”, but Innes’ mother Pauline Innes  it was clear her son did not take the image himself.“All we can say is that the picture is clearly not a selfie as everyone has been describing it,” she said. “You can clearly see that it is not Ben who is taking the picture. He’s in it but he’s not taking it.”Innes sent the photo to friends in the UK from the plane. In one screenshot of a WhatsApp conversation, , Innes wrote: “You know your boy doesn’t fuck about!! Turn on the news lad!!!”Innes’ flatmate Chris Tundogan told the Mail that Innes was “not afraid to shy away from anything … I find it pretty mental but that’s just Ben I guess!”A friend of Innes from university told the Telegraph that he was a “wild man” and “very into his banter”, and that the stunt was “totally in character for him”.Egyptian national Mustafa hijacked the plane, which had 62 people on board, shortly after it took off on what should have been a 28-minute flight from Alexandria to Cairo.Claiming to be wearing a suicide belt, he forced the plane to re-route to Cyprus, where he proceeded to take several passengers and crew hostage and issued a forlorn demand to see his former wife, a Cypriot.He finally surrendered himself to counter-terrorism police, reportedly emerging from the aircraft with his hands in the air.As one Egyptian foreign ministry official said of Mustafa: “He’s not a terrorist, he’s an idiot. Terrorists are crazy but they aren’t stupid. This guy is.”</content>
<class_name>Air transport,Egypt,Cyprus,Scotland,Africa,Middle East and North Africa,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:13:26+0100</date>
<title>Ben Innes on taking a 'selfie' with the EgyptAir hijacker</title>
<content>t first glance, Grand Front Osaka in the heart of Japan’s second city looks like any high-end international mall. Fashionistas parade their latest purchases from upscale boutiques, while expensively dishevelled youths cruise endless escalators, coffees in hand.But amid global retailers such as Muji, Panasonic and Zara nestle dozens of shops with less familiar names: Enellege, Au, and Kinki University Fisheries Restaurant. These are not traditional stores but one-off outlets offering exclusive new products and services still under development. Shoppers can try smartphone apps while they are being coded, sample the latest energy-efficient gadgets, or even sit down to a meal of the world’s first farmed bluefin tuna (a species that has been  in the wild). Inside a three-storey space called  are even more experimental prototypes, including drones, holograms and digital shopping assistants. With a wave at a video screen, a virtual silk kimono is overlaid on a floor-to-ceiling image of me, following my every move. If I like it, I can add it to my shopping cart without ever squeezing into a changing room. It is all part of an ambitious attempt by Osaka to recreate the success of Silicon Valley by harnessing the power of individual consumers as beta testers, not online but in person at plazas and food courts in the city’s newest shopping centre. Japan’s  are well-known. Its GDP is , a quarter of the population is over 65, and the brightest youngsters tend to flee to Tokyo or elsewhere. From 2013 to 2015, Tokyo gained  aged 25 to 34 as Osaka lost. Technology giants like Sharp – recently bought by a Taiwan company but still based in Osaka – that used to rule the world now limp along as  propped up by government cash. A local journalist even wrote a warning that the city could end up bankrupt and abandoned, like Detroit.If Osaka’s plan works, today’s initial crop of startups will grow, flourish and lure young workers back to the city to start their own businesses. “Startups are just 8.5% of businesses here but they produce almost 40% of new jobs,” says Masaaki Yoshikawa, director general of the Osaka Innovation Hub, a municipally-funded incubator, quoting data from Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. “And yet  has three times fewer startups per capita annually than the UK or US.”The Lab will be part of a scheme called Knowledge Capital, designed to help new ideas make it to market faster. It starts in offices above the mall named the . This members-only co-working space has hot desks, lounges, and meeting rooms for 275 entrepreneurs, each of whom pays a heavily subsidised fee of just 10,000 Yen (around £60) a month. If a company needs room to grow, it can occupy one of 52 small dedicated offices called Collabo, or even a fully-fledged office suite, all at knock-down rates. There is also a library, accountant and lawyers on site to offer professional advice.The next step is to move to the Lab in the mall downstairs. This is currently home to about a dozen startups and universities in the process of perfecting new products. Because most startups can’t spare the staff for their booths at the Lab, Osaka provides professional “communicators” to conduct demonstrations, help users and collect feedback on the products. “The startup scene in Osaka is at an early stage,” says Sifang Lu, a 30-something developer who moved back to Japan recently after a spell in Silicon Valley. “But here, we actually get this help from the city. In San Francisco, they just collect taxes.” Lu is working on an app called  that allows users to make playdates with other dog owners. “The key difference between Japan and other countries is that software engineers make very little money here,” he says. “They’re treated like labour.”Despite securing some funding, Lu is not quite ready yet for the ultimate step: a move to one of the two dozen  storefronts in the mall itself. In fact, none of the startups that began life at Knowledge Capital has yet graduated to a full retail shop, perhaps because the project only began in 2013. In the meantime, the storefronts have been snapped up by established brands like Coca-Cola and Mercedes-Benz happy to find spaces where they can try something new. One more alternative shop in the showroom is a  run by Rohto, a pharmaceutical company, as part of a vaguely defined “medical check-up” community project. The restaurant grows many of its own vegetables on site under LED lights. Processing, packaging, transporting, storing and preparing fresh fruit and vegetables uses about four times as much energy of growing them in the first place. Japan’s crowded cities are ideal for experimenting with indoor farming.Osaka’s efforts in innovation have also reached beyond the mall walls. Moff is a watch-like wearable toy that automatically adds light sabre or air guitar sound effects to children’s games. It was developed during a city-supported hackathon in Osaka, then funded on Kickstarter in 2014, and is . The only problem for Osaka is that as soon as Moff found success, it moved out of the city. “The president of Moff took the company and its engineers to Tokyo,” admits Masaaki Yoshikawa. “But we are targeting becoming a gateway city. In the long run, as Osaka becomes a gateway city with more global connections, we would expect them to come back again.”</content>
<class_name>Japan,Entrepreneurs,Small business,Asia Pacific,Economic recovery,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:51:05+0100</date>
<title>Japan's Silicon Valley? Osaka hopes hi-tech startups will reverse economic woes</title>
<content>The Port Talbot steelworks faces a race against time to secure its survival and save thousands of jobs, with  Steel looking to resolve the future of its UK business within weeks as it emerged that billions of pounds are needed to make it viable.About 15,000 jobs are at risk in Tata Steel’s UK business and a further 25,000 in the supply chain after the Indian company revealed plans to pull out of the country. Sajid Javid, the business secretary, is on his way home from Australia to tackle the crisis, and David Cameron is also returning from a holiday in Lanzarote.A senior source close to Tata said there were weeks rather than months to agree a rescue deal, with Port Talbot and the wider UK business losing significantly more than £1m every day. The financial problems facing Port Talbot  that Tata is ready to “give it away for nothing”, the source said.However, they warned that Tata had been trying to find a buyer for the UK steel division for 18 months and there were no candidates willing to press ahead with a deal, with billions of pounds needed to get the business back on track.“They have spent nearly £4bn in the last eight years,” the source said. “It would need another £4bn.”The company’s pension costs are a “huge problem”, they added. Tata warned last year that it faced a £2bn pension deficit in the UK. The British Steel Pension Scheme has liabilities of £14.5bn, according to its latest accounts. The trustees of the pension scheme said on Wednesday night that they would seek talks with Tata and are in contact with the Pensions Regulator about the crisis.The comments highlight the grave situation facing Port Talbot, the UK’s largest steelworks, and will add to the pressure for the government to step in with support.Tata has worked closely with the government over the last few months but decided to pull out of the UK after . The source said this was the “last straw” for the company. to scrap a regulation known as the “lesser duty rule”, which would have allowed the EU to increase tariffs on Chinese steel beyond the 9% they sit at. The government said this would lead to higher costs for users of steel and was not a proportionate response.The chances of Tata keeping hold of its UK steel operations are thought to be extremely slim, meaning the options are a sale of the entire business to one buyer, a breakup of the business to different buyers, or the closure of all the sites.“It is losing more than £1m a day. Put yourself in their shoes,” the source added. “They are in trouble with the stock exchange in .”Port Talbot, and other Tata sites with blast furnaces that actually make steel, are understood to be particularly at risk because the financial losses are so large. The management at Port Talbot is thought to be willing to launch a management buyout, but this is likely to need the unions to agree to cuts to the pension scheme and financial support from the government.Tata has written off £2bn from the value of its UK assets, meaning they are effectively worthless.Koushik Chatterjee, the finance director of Tata Steel, said the UK business had become “quite a burden for the company” and that the board had decided “we can’t sustain this kind of exposure”. Liberty House, which has agreed to buy Tata sites in Scotland, said its interest in the business would depend on support from Tata and the government.It said: “Like others in the industry we will have to take time to reflect on Tata’s announcement and its implications. The scale and timing of yesterday’s decision was much more dramatic than anyone was expecting. While the downstream operations will be of interest, we’re clear that taking on the iron and steelmaking facilities present a huge challenge.“We have shown in Scotland that we are capable of working constructively with all stakeholders to achieve a positive outcome. Our engagement will depend very much on what Tata and the government are prepared to do to help save these businesses.”Greybull Capital, an investment firm, is in the process  and is thought to be keen to focus on that deal at this stage, rather than buying more from the Indian company.Jeremy Corbyn has called for parliament to be recalled to discuss the crisis facing the steel industry. The Labour leader, who visited Port Talbot on Wednesday afternoon, described the government as being “in disarray” in a letter to David Cameron calling for the recall of MPs from the Easter break. Corbyn has already cut short his holiday in Devon.The government is considering providing financial support for Tata Steel’s UK business, including Port Talbot, to allow time for a buyer to be found. Anna Soubry, the business minister, said the government was prepared to look at a number of options to save Tata’s British business, which employs 4,000 people at Port Talbot.The IPPR thinktank has claimed that at least 40,000 jobs are at risk from the crisis, including 15,000 at Tata Steel and 25,000 posts in the supply chain.Corbyn said: “The news that Tata is preparing to pull out of steelmaking in Britain puts thousands of jobs across the country and a strategic UK-wide industry at risk. MPs must have the chance now to debate the future of steel and hold ministers to account for their failure to intervene.“Steelworkers and their families will be desperately worried about the uncertainty. The government is in disarray over what action to take. Ministers must act now to protect the steel industry, which is at the heart of manufacturing in Britain and vital to its future.”The prime minister has been on holiday in Lanzarote while George Osborne is also out of the country and heading to Paris for a meeting of the G20 finance ministers.Javid is flying back from a ministerial trip to Australia and is understood to have spoken to the Tata Group chairman, Cyrus Mistry, on Wednesday morning. The business secretary is “monitoring the situation closely and getting regular updates”, according to a government source.But Stephen Kinnock, the Labour MP whose south Wales constituency of Aberavon includes Port Talbot,  in not standing up for the industry before Tata decided to pull out of the UK.One option under consideration is for the government to step in with temporary funding to keep Port Talbot open if a sale looks likely, but any fuller form of nationalisation is said to be off the table.Tata Steel, part of the Indian Tata conglomerate,  that its board had rejected a turnaround plan for Port Talbot. Instead, it decided to sell the UK business, which includes the remnants of British Steel. to discuss the company’s UK business, hoping that Tata would agree to a turnaround plan to keep steelmaking in Port Talbot and at other UK plants. The decision to sell will affect other Tata plants, including Rotherham, Corby and Shotton. </content>
<class_name>Tata,Steel industry,Corus,India,Manufacturing sector,South and Central Asia,Wales,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T21:54:23+0100</date>
<title>British steel plants must be sold within weeks, says Tata</title>
<content>The technology sector is burgeoning, so if women really want to be at the seat of power in the future, it’s a space they need to break into. We assembled a panel of leading women in tech to take part in a  to discuss what we need to do to increase female representation in the sector. Here’s a roundup of some of the best advice they shared. Companies may be good at investing in career development early on, but this needs to be carried over for returning female employees (which is happening more). One crucial way of doing this is to ensure education opportunities that fit around family life. At Digital Mums, we are addressing the rising problem of maternal unemployment by up-skilling mums to become social media managers for SMEs. The digital skills gap is growing across SMEs and by 2020 it could cost the economy £2bn. We aim to help plug this gap with this untapped talent.At Sky we have just launched an initiative called  - beginning in April we will offer free training courses for up to 60 women per year. In recognition of the need for flexible working arrangements for some target groups – including unemployed single mums, and mums returning to work – a range of course structures will be made available, from full-time to both part-time and evening courses. We’d love to see more women taking up a career in tech whatever their previous experienceFollow this mantra ... I can, I will, watch me! There is so much opportunity within the tech community, come and give us a go!This is a problem across Stem (science, technology, engineering and maths) not just tech. Many great organisations out there are trying to change this situation. Young women and girls are just not being engaged early enough in schools to take up the sciences and programming courses. I believe it’s still seen as a male subject.There’s a fair amount we can do as individuals. We need to be clear in communicating the creativity and altruism available in tech careers. We also need to be very conscious of exposing girls, young women, boys, teachers, parents …(influencers) to the copious female role models we already have – like my fellow panellists. There’s a lot the media can do. I for one, would love to see a technical female character on Eastenders to help normalise the existence of technical women!More attention needs to be paid to interesting things that young girls are already doing in . Then other girls will follow. If every girl in the UK and US saw how empowering working in Stem can be, we may see a shift. A book I’m writing on a teen girl activist using Stem to change the world is a perfect example. You might recognise her as . She invented a flashlight powered by the heat of your hand. </content>
<class_name>inequality,The gender gap,Women,Work & careers,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:32:25+0100</date>
<title>Network and hustle: the key skills for women in technology</title>
<content>It used to be said that Britain was a nation of shopkeepers, but a walk down any high street reveals it is now one of diners. Over the last decade, our high street pubs, in particular,  More than half of all pub visits now involve food and just a quarter of drinks sold are alcoholic. Pubs are  and our customers are no longer going out to drink but are drinking while they are out eating and socialising. The sector has been supported by government incentives to invest in the high street. This has, in turn, fuelledentrepreneurship throughout the food chain – last year the number of restaurants in Britain rose by 1.6%, equivalent to  (pdf). Three quarters of alcohol retailers  (pdf).But storm clouds are gathering that could yet knock this positive growth story off track. Intense competition and a rush for expansion have sent property prices soaring. Rents and rates now account for more than a fifth of turnover and high street businesses are sitting ducks when it comes to local business rates. While the recent budget had some good news, it did little to chase the rain away in the short term.  and business rates reforms – such as changes to the frequency of revaluations and the use of the consumer price index over the retail price index to measure inflation – don’t kick in until 2020. In the meantime the introduction of the national living wage, stakeholder pensions and apprenticeship levies will see substantial year on year increases in operating costs for pubs and restaurants. All of this eats into businesses’ margins for investment. We need more immediate relief.At the general election,  “the most wide-ranging review of national business rates in a generation”. While the budget was welcome in  to more start-up firms and the smallest businesses, it was a huge missed opportunity to bring the local business tax regime into the 21st century.It avoids the elephant in the room of internet sellers not being subject to the same business rates as more traditional models. Local business rates are the most effective means of ensuring a fair and consistent contribution; the VAT change will not deliver the same effect. What many were calling for was a rapid and radical rebalancing of rates as a general business tax – as opposed to a property tax – to spread the burden more proportionately. All earnings from a businesses’ premises need to be taken into account, including online sales.Pubs and restaurants account for 5% of GDP but pay more than 10% of all business rates (top up rates bills for those opening after midnight can drive that even higher), meaning that while the average pub pays 15p a pint in business rates a supermarket pays just 5p per pint. At the same time, online businesses pay only nominal costs as warehouse values are far lower than prime high street property. The system has become deeply unfair and unsustainable.The chancellor has also promised  But local authorities view pubs through an outdated prism – many have prioritised shiny tech and science businesses with incentives rather than backing reliable but unglamorous hospitality. Yet in many parts of the country, pubs, bars and restaurants are the largest business and employer. What we needed was a clear signal from the Treasury, but the budget failed to deliver it.The confidence of labour and property-intensive businesses – and eating and drinking out are both – has taken a knock and the rate of growth has already slowed as a result. Operating costs are the biggest brake on potential across the sector. Pubs and restaurants pay more than a third of their turnover in taxes and the margin they have to invest and grow is small. Given the contribution those businesses have made to the economy and to job creation, that should give real pause for thought in No 11.</content>
<class_name>Budget,Small business,Tax and spending,Food & drink industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:42:39+0100</date>
<title>George Osborne has failed to deliver the promised business rates revolution</title>
<content>Discount supermarket  has recalled some branded biscuits and snacks due to possible “pest contamination”.The products, made by Baketime, have been withdrawn from sale “on a precautionary basis” because of “potential unhygienic manufacturing conditions”, the recall notice says, adding: “These products are sold by Aldi, Asvina, Booker and LBV.”Customers have been warned not to eat the products and advised to return them to their nearest store. All batches of the products had been recalled “as they may have been subject to pest contamination”. Affected products include Aldi Cheese Thins, Aldi Cheese Bakes, Aldi Oddbites and Aldi Ginger Nuts.A spokeswoman for Aldi said: “We have recalled a number of Aldi-branded products that have been manufactured by Baketime and have immediately suspended all orders with this supplier while we investigate this matter.“Customers that have purchased the products listed in our public recall notices should return them to their nearest store where they will be offered a full refund.”</content>
<class_name>Aldi,Product recalls,Consumer affairs,Retail industry,Supermarkets,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T19:20:07+0100</date>
<title>Aldi recalls branded biscuits due to possible pest contamination</title>
<content>hether it’s in preparation for mastering the hills on your local club ride, or because you have aspirations to ride some of the mountain passes made famous by the Grand Tours, efficient climbing on a bike can make all the difference to a long day in the saddle. So here are eight simple ways to make some big improvements.The first place to start is with yourself. You are the engine that has to get to the top, and the size and power of that engine will determine how quickly you reach the summit. The best way to get up hills faster is to shift unnecessary bulk. By dropping a few pounds, you will notice a considerable difference in performance. This doesn’t need to be out-and-out dieting, just making small adjustments to your diet (such as cutting out those extra biscuits with your tea: calories that serve no purpose will only slow you down). An easy way to do this is with a food diary; start noting down your meals, drinks and snacks and you’ll soon work out where the easy wins can be made.If losing weight isn’t for you, then fine-tuning your power output is a surefire way to make those mountains seem like speed bumps. There are ways to achieve this without using a power monitor; interval training (alternating periods of high- and low-intensity activity) conditions the body to cope with higher levels of effort. You can also try intervals of “over-gearing” where you ride in a higher (harder) gear than normal for a set time so as to improve the way that your muscles handle effort.For efficient climbing, you need to work on your strength – more accurately, your core strength. A strong core (your abdominal and thoracic muscles) is crucial in cycling for efficient power transfer on the bike. A solid core will mean stability through the hips and pelvis, which in turn equates to less side-to-side rocking and greater energy transfer, especially when climbing in the saddle. A strong core will also help with any lower-back fatigue; plus, when climbing out the saddle, those rock-like abdominals will help transform the torsional forces exerted into upward motion rather than wasted movement.Aside from your core, to ride up hills, you obviously need strong legs. You will generate a certain amount of force using your quadriceps and hamstrings, so you’ll need to make sure you pay attention to these major muscles – basic bodyweight drills such as burpees, squat jumps and lunge variations should become part of your training regime, but the other muscle group that will need attention is the gluteus (your bottom).When mastering the power of your posterior, you’ll notice a significant increase in hill-climbing capabilities, but you need to start by activating that muscle. The best way to assess your gluteus engagement is to see a physiotherapist with a specialty in cycling biomechanics. They’ll very quickly be able to advise you on exercises or bike setup changes to help you fire on all cylinders. However, you can find out how much basic control you have of your gluteus muscles with a simple test you can do at home: simply lie on your back with a hand under each bum-cheek, legs straight and then squeeze each gluteus independently, pushing against your hand. The aim is to just activate the left or right gluteus muscles without engaging the opposite side, abdominals, hamstring or quad. If you can do this, you’re on the path to climbing supremacy; you just need to convert this into power in the pedal stroke.Moving to the bike, the first thing to consider is gear ratios. Using compact cranks with a 50 x 34 chainring combination (as opposed to the standard 53 x 39) and cassettes with a 27, 28 or even 30 cog will create a greater range of lower gears and can help you find a higher, more comfortable cadence without grinding it out on every climb.The reason why a low cadence (around 65 RPM) should be avoided where possible is that it puts your muscles in a state of contraction for a longer period of time, and the longer a muscle is put under load, the faster it fatigues. When your cadence is higher, around the 90RPM mark, your muscles don’t contract for as long during each pedal stroke and thus won’t be as tired, allowing you to climb further.Challenging ascents are when a lightweight bike comes into its own. The difference between a 7kg bike and an 11kg bike becomes very apparent over a 17km climb, but light bikes can come at a cost. If you are happy to spend, then you’ll be spoilt for choice, but if you were to change one thing, then you can’t go too far wrong with some lighter, stiffer wheels – even shaving 500g off will make a noticeable difference.Taking all of this in may seem like a lot of work, but it won’t just be your climbing that is improved. Core strength is vital to a powerful sprint, too, and mastering the art of a higher cadence will help develop your cardio-vascular system – so not only will you be lighter and stronger, but your fitness levels will improve, too. Now get out there and find some hills.</content>
<class_name>Cycling,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:00:11+0100</date>
<title>Cycling: how to conquer hills</title>
<content>A nurse suspected of killing up to 13 patients in a hospital in Tuscany has been arrested in a case that Italy’s health minister said represented “a peak in all rankings of human misery”.The nurse, who was named in Italian press reports as Fausta Bonino, has been accused of administering lethal doses of the blood-thinner Heparin in patients in the intensive care and anaesthesia hospital unit in which she worked in the coastal city of Piombino.The deaths occurred in 2014 and 2015.The nurse’s alleged victims, who did not apparently need Heparin for their illnesses, were found to have been administered levels of the drug 10 times the normal amount, according to police investigators.Bonino, a 55-year-old native of Savona in Liguria, was arrested on Wednesday night, according to Italian media reports. She was caught following an investigation in which police used secret cameras to observe her. Italian media outlets also reported that allegedly incriminating evidence was found in searches conducted at the hospital and in Bonino’s home.The victims were men and women aged between 61 and 88, and in most cases their death was attributed to excessive thinning of the blood, which can cause internal bleeding. One death was attributed to cardiac arrest.Beatrice Lorenzin, Italy’s health minister, reacted to the news with shock and dismay.“In the ranking of horrors this time we have reached one of the peaks committed by human misery,” she said in a statement. “This incident highlights once again the need for special protection for the elderly and frail people in the health facilities that are entrusted with their care.”It is not the first time such an incident has rocked . A former nurse in a hospital in Ravenna was sentenced to life imprisonment in March for the 2014 murder of a 78-year-old patient who was administered a fatal dose of potassium. In another case, a nurse named Angelo Stazzi, nicknamed “the angel of death”, was handed a life sentence for the murder of five elderly patients in a nursing home near Rome.</content>
<class_name>Italy,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:29:11+0100</date>
<title>Nurse arrested over deaths of 13 patients in Tuscany</title>
<content>The  news agency entered a formal cooperation with the Hitler regime in the 1930s, supplying American newspapers with material directly produced and selected by the Nazi propaganda ministry, archive material unearthed by a German historian has revealed.When the Nazi party seized power in Germany in 1933, one of its first objectives was to bring into line not just the national press, but international media too. The Guardian was , and by 1935 even bigger British-American agencies such as Keystone and Wide World Photos were forced to close their bureaus after coming under attack for employing Jewish journalists.Associated Press, which has described itself as the “marine corps of journalism” (“always the first in and the last out”) was the only western news agency able to stay open in Hitler’s , continuing to operate until the US entered the war in 1941. It thus found itself in the presumably profitable situation of being the prime channel for news reports and pictures out of the totalitarian state.In an article  , historian Harriet Scharnberg shows that AP was only able to retain its access by entering into a mutually beneficial two-way cooperation with the Nazi regime.The New York-based agency ceded control of its output by signing up to the so-called (editor’s law), promising not to publish any material “calculated to weaken the strength of the Reich abroad or at home”.This law required AP to hire reporters who also worked for the Nazi party’s propaganda division. One of the four photographers employed by the Associated Press in the 1930s, Franz Roth, was a member of the SS paramilitary unit’s propaganda division, whose photographs were personally chosen by Hitler. AP has removed Roth’s pictures from its website since Scharnberg published her findings, though thumbnails remain viewable due to “software issues”.AP also allowed the Nazi regime to use its photo archives for its virulently antisemitic propaganda literature. Publications illustrated with AP photographs include the bestselling SS brochure “Der Untermensch” (“The Sub-Human”) and the booklet “The Jews in the USA”, which aimed to demonstrate the decadence of Jewish Americans with a picture of New York mayor Fiorello LaGuardia eating from a buffet with his hands.Coming just before Associated Press’s 170th anniversary in May, the newly discovered information raises not just difficult questions about the role AP played in allowing Nazi Germany to conceal its true face during Hitler’s first years in power, but also about the agency’s relationship with contemporary totalitarian regimes.While the AP deal enabled the west to peek into a repressive society that may otherwise have been entirely hidden from view – for which Berlin correspondent Louis P Lochner won a Pulitzer in 1939 – the arrangement also enabled the Nazis to cover up some of its crimes. Scharnberg, a historian at Halle’s Martin Luther University, argued that AP’s cooperation with the Hitler regime allowed the Nazis to “portray a war of extermination as a conventional war”.In June 1941, Nazi troops invaded the town of Lviv in western Ukraine. Upon discovering evidence of mass killings carried out by Soviet troops, German occupying forces had organised “revenge” pogroms against the city’s Jewish population.Franz Roth’s photographs of the dead bodies inside Lviv prisons were selected upon Hitler’s personal orders and distributed to the American press via AP.“Instead of printing pictures of the days-long Lviv pogroms with its thousands of Jewish victims, the American press was only supplied with photographs showing the victims of the Soviet police and ‘brute’ Red Army war criminals,” Scharnberg told the Guardian. “To that extent it is fair to say that these pictures played their part in disguising the true character of the war led by the Germans,” said the historian. “Which events were made visible and which remained invisible in AP’s supply of pictures followed German interests and the German narrative of the war.”Approached with these allegations, AP said in a statement that Scharnberg’s report “describes both individuals and their activities before and during the war that were unknown to AP”, and that it is currently reviewing documents in and beyond its archives to “further our understanding of the period”.An AP spokesperson told the Guardian: “As we continue to research this matter, AP rejects any notion that it deliberately ‘collaborated’ with the Nazi regime. An accurate characterisation is that the AP and other foreign news organisations were subjected to intense pressure from the Nazi regime from the year of Hitler’s coming to power in 1932 until the AP’s expulsion from Germany in 1941. AP management resisted the pressure while working to gather accurate, vital and objective news in a dark and dangerous time.”The new findings may only have been of interest to company historians, were it not for the fact that AP’s relationship with totalitarian regimes has once again come under scrutiny. Since January 2012, when AP became the first western news agency to open a bureau in North Korea, questions have repeatedly been raised about the neutrality of its Pyongyang bureau’s output.In 2014, that top executives at AP had in 2011 “agreed to distribute state-produced North Korean propaganda through the AP name” in order to gain access to the highly profitable market of distributing picture material out of the totalitarian state. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea comes second from bottom in the . showed that AP was apparently willing to let the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) handpick one text and one photo journalist from its agitation and propaganda unit to work in its bureau. AP told the Guardian that “it would be presumptuous to assume ‘the draft’ has any significance”, but declined to disclose further information on the final agreement.Significant events, reported in the international media, were not covered by AP’s Pyongyang bureau, such as the six-week public disappearance of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in September and October 2014, the November 2014 Sony Entertainment hack that had allegedly been orchestrated by a North Korean cyberwarfare agency, or a reports of a famine in South Hwanghae province in 2012.When the French news agency Agence France-Presse signed an agreement to open a bureau in Pyongyang in January this year, AP’s former Pyongyang bureau chief  that it was a sign of the regime’s “increased confidence in its ability to keep foreign journalists under control”.The AP spokesperson denied that the agency submitted to censorship. “We do not run stories by the Korean Central News Agency or any government official before we publish them. At the same time, officials are free to grant or deny access or interviews.”Nate Thayer, a former AP correspondent in Cambodia who published the leaked draft agreement, told the Guardian: “It looks like AP have learned very little from their own history. To claim, as the agency does, that North Korea does not control their output, is ludicrous. There is naturally an argument that any access to secretive states is important. But at the end of the day it matters whether you tell your readers that what you are reporting is based on independent and neutral sources”.</content>
<class_name>Germany,Associated Press,News agencies,Newspapers & magazines,Europe,Nazism,Adolf Hitler,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T12:18:39+0100</date>
<title>Revealed: how Associated Press cooperated with the Nazis</title>
<content>South Africa’s top court has ruled that the president, , failed to uphold the constitution when he ignored a state order to repay some of the government funds used in an £11m upgrade to his private residence, including a swimming pool and amphitheatre.The court also ruled that parliament, which is dominated by the ruling African National Congress, had failed in its obligations by not holding Zuma to account.In what will be a costly judgment for Zuma in financial and political terms, the constitutional court ordered that he must personally pay back the cost of those improvements to his residence, Nkandla, that were not essential for security, including a cattle enclosure, a visitor centre and a chicken run. The national treasury should determine the reasonable costs within 60 days, the judges ruled, with Zuma required to pay the bill just over a month later. He has denied any wrongdoing. Opposition parties, who referred the case to the constitutional court, have said that they will seek the president’s impeachment.In a unanimous judgment, the 11 constitutional court justices said a  by the public protector, Thuli Madonsela, into the spending was legally binding and that remedial action should have been upheld.Zuma showed a “substantial disregard” for the constitutional power of the public protector, who had ordered him to repay the public purse for the renovations, the court found. “The president is the head of state, his is the calling to the highest office in the land, he is the first citizen of this country,” said the chief justice, Mogoeng Mogoeng. “The nation pins its hopes on him to steer the country in the right direction.“In failing to comply with the remedial action, the president thus failed to uphold, comply and respect the constitution. The president may have been acting on wrong legal advice, in good faith. But the illegality still stands.”The case was brought by Madonsela alongside the country’s largest opposition parties – the Democratic Alliance and the Economic Freedom Fighters party, led by long-time Zuma rival Julius Malema. Dozens of armed police officers, an armoured vehicle and a barbed-wire barricade were placed outside the court in Johannesburg as the judges delivered their verdict on the six-year saga.Zuma,  including the sacking of the finance minister, Nhlanhla Nene, which led to major protests and an , offered to  on the residence last month, saying he received incorrect legal advice. Zuma’s lawyer, Jeremy Gauntlett, previously admitted that the improvements to the sprawling mansion were not solely based on security concerns, as had previously been claimed by the president. The opposition parties and Madonsela refused to withdraw the case from the constitutional court, despite Zuma’s admission. Madonsela’s original report called for Zuma to repay the cost of upgrades to Nkandla and outlined estimates of £131,000 for the swimming pool and a parking garage for VIP guests, and £56,000 for a cattle culvert.Zuma then refused to pay and ordered new investigations by the public works and police ministries that generally exonerated him, including one widely ridiculed that found that the swimming pool was a reservoir designed to protect against fire. Mogoeng said the president did not challenge the public protector through due process, preferring to use the separate investigations as a shield, considering himself to be “lawfully absolved”. In his judgment, Mogoeng praised Madonsela’s office, which he said should not be undermined, and described the public protector as “the embodiment of a biblical David who fights the very well resourced Goliath that [is] the impropriety of government officials”.The ANC’s majority in the national assembly may be enough to save Zuma from any impeachment proceedings by the opposition following the ruling, but it will make it harder for those in his party to continue to support him. Outside court, the Democratic Alliance leader, Mmusi Maimane, said Zuma should resign immediately. “President Jacob Zuma’s action amounts to a serious violation of the constitution, and constitutes grounds for impeachment,” he said.In his judgment, Mogoeng said parliament had a constitutional obligation to hold the president accountable and “effectively flouted their obligations” by passing a resolution nullifying the findings of the public protector and replacing them with its own findings. “This, the rule of law is dead against,” the judge said, calling the resolution unlawful. “It is another way of taking the law into one’s own hands.”In a statement, the ANC said it respected the unanimous judgment by the constitutional court, declaring the party had “full confidence in the judiciary”. Malema challenged the ANC to call an early general election, not due until 2019. “Parliament has failed our people‚” he told a news conference. “Let  elect honourable people who will uphold the constitution.“Why must we continue with failed institutions? This is an opportunity for South  to unite and remove a criminal from office.”At a press conference in Pretoria after the hearing, a smiling Madonsela said the decision was “better late than never”.“It’s not my place to say whether or not the president is fit for office. My job was to protect the public from improper conduct,” she said. “Now the constitutional court has confirmed I did my job properly and it is someone else’s job to see what happens next.“But I would say to those who exercise public power, don’t reject those who disagree with you, because you might just head for a cliff if you surround yourself with people who are yes men.”</content>
<class_name>South Africa,Africa,Jacob Zuma,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:14:41+0100</date>
<title>Jacob Zuma breached constitution over home upgrades, South African court rules</title>
<content>As you walk round Lake Bled, past Villa Bled, a little sign saying “Tearoom” points upwards through the trees. It gives no indication of the wow factor this tearoom commands. Once used by President Tito, it recently reopened with the original furniture and photos. Have a cup of coffee on the patio with its stunning floor mosaics of wild animals, while you look out over the lake towards the church, and the castle beyond. It is a treasure of pure elegance, the prices are ridiculously reasonable and the coffee just gorgeous!We came across this park – in the north of the country near the Austrian border – by accident, and thought it the most beautiful spot in the country, with just a few homes amid mountains and the greenest green you’ve ever seen. Spend a few days cycling, doing walks to the waterfall, or hanging out with your new neighbours who, we found, were more than happy to share their homemade whisky and spit-roasted pig. Stay at  (doubles €70 B&B) and soak it all in from a hammock. The small park fee (€7 for a car) is worth it when it’s this good.The scenic train journey from Jesenice to Nova Gorica on the  takes you from the north to the Italian border in the east. In fact, the Slovenian-Italian border runs through Nova Gorica station car park! You pass through dramatic mountain scenery and follow the brilliantly turquoise Sava river, before crossing the 220-metre-long stone bridge at Solkan. Nova Gorica itself has an international border down the middle, dividing the former communist part of town in modern-day Slovenia from its more picturesque part, Gorizia in Italy.If you go to Postojna to see the amazing caves, don’t miss , a fortress built into a cave mouth 10km away.  is a precipitous gap in the cave used as a hiding place when enemies attacked. If you’re brave (and don’t get claustrophobic) you can climb the slippery rocks, but the less intrepid can walk around the cave inside the castle and enjoy the eeriness. East of Ljubljana, the GP Trojane restaurant and shop is renowned for , a large jam doughnut that every Slovenian enjoys. It also serves many traditional dishes. To eat like a Slovenian, I recommend soup with  (noodles, €2.50), and some of the many local sausages on offer (€8-10) at this beautiful place in the Sava hills. Kobarid is a charming little town in the stunning Julian Alps. The area has plenty to offer to adrenaline junkies and history buffs alike. Hisa Franko is a superb gourmet restaurant, and I still dream about it months later. All the dishes use seasonal ingredients which are locally sourced. Delicate flavours are combined in a magical way and dishes are accompanied by excellent Slovenian wines. When you’ve done Lake Bled, don’t leave without catching the bus to Radovljica. A charming, quiet, laid-back town with a stunning medieval square and easy bus and train connections to Ljubljana, it also boasts a number of bizarre but brilliant museums, including the chance to discover the secret history of Slovenian apiculture at the .With its centre on a small island, the town of Kostanjevica na Krki is perfect for enjoying a coffee by the river Krka, or paddling around on a boat. Just nearby is Božidar Jakac Art Museum, in a former monastery dating from the 13th century and surrounded by the oak sculptures of the Forma Viva Sculpture Park. Slovenia’s a land of castles, lakes and spine-tingling caves, so it seems fitting that it has a one-room museum dedicated to the ultimate fairytale foodstuff: gingerbread. Between Ljubljana and Bled is Radovlijca, where you’ll find (in the Old Town) Gostilna Lectar, a guesthouse-cum-restaurant-cum-shop with a downstairs secret. For €1.5, you descend the stairs for an introduction to the history of this confection, made here since 1766. It is now sold in a multitude of shapes – hearts mostly but also cars, houses, rabbits and chickens – and painstakingly iced in bright, bold colours (including your chosen gift message). Our “souvenirs” certainly didn’t last long.  In the far north-west of Slovenia is a quiet pretty town called Bovec. It lies in a valley surrounded by mighty mountains and can be reached by a drive along the beautiful river Soca. It stood in for Narnia in the Prince Caspian film. Bovec attracts adrenalin junkies from around Europe but also offers less challenging pursuits. Start the day with excellent cheese  and apple strudel from the bakery. Then feast on the activities available locally. Try rafting, kayaking or, even more exhilarating, hydrospeeding. Want a go at canyoning? Walking? There are plenty of opportunities.  </content>
<class_name>Slovenia holidays,Weekend breaks,Short breaks,Walking holidays,Cultural trips,Top 10s,Europe holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:36:58+0100</date>
<title>Highlights of Slovenia: readers’ travel tips</title>
<content>Loughborough football alumni group has  featuring not only Barry Hines, Bob Wilson and Dario Gradi but also Ted Powell (who helped shape the England U19 careers of the Nevilles, Butt, Scholes, Campbell etc), Keith Blunt (coached at Malmö), Alan Bradshaw (played at Crewe); the team was coached by Allen Wade and Charlie Hughes. Also, it was my father Dave Crane (pictured alongside Robbie Brightwell in another Loughborough photo), his roommate and fellow Yorkshireman, who gave him Animal Farm to read, and helped inspire Barry’s love of literature (, 26 March). As a follow-up to your gloriously perceptive  (28 March), could I suggest a first project for Ed Vaizey’s proposed Commercial Academy for Culture (Cac) might be an international study, perhaps sponsored by Thames Water, of the influence of Piero Manzoni’s Merda d’Artista, small tins of which he produced in 1961? I am sure I was not the only one struck by your front-page  (29 March) of a mother mourning the death of her son in the Easter bombing in Lahore, Pakitan, in its similarity to paintings of Mary mourning the death of Jesus at the foot of the cross; and so apposite. Thank you for . When John Graham died and we no longer had Araucaria’s specials to look forward to, I thought bank holidays would inevitably be duller and greyer, but Maskarade’s latest is a real tour de force – totally engaging and absorbing. I assume that by popular demand the Met office will name the next storm Windy McWindface (, 26 March).</content>
<class_name>Loughborough University,Kes,Arts policy,Weather,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T19:02:35+0100</date>
<title>Loughborough team photo with Barry Hines is a bit of football history</title>
<content>McLaren’s Fernando Alonso has been refused his place on the starting grid for the Bahrain Grand Prix after failing a medical test following his .The Spaniard, 34, underwent a series of tests at Bahrain’s Sakhir circuit on Thursday but it was deemed that he will be unable to take part on safety grounds.In the horrific incident in Melbourne, Alonso’s car flipped twice and disintegrated after hitting a barrier, although the driver was able to walk away from the wreckage. He later said: “I am lucky to be here and thankful to be here.”Alonso’s removal from the grid marks the second time in his career that he has been sidelined for a race. In 2015 he was ruled out of the opener in Australia following a crash in pre-season testing.The FIA, the sport’s governing body, said in a statement: “Two sets of chest CT scans were compared and it was decided that there was insufficient resolution of the signs to allow him to compete on safety grounds. A repeat chest scan has been requested before the Chinese Grand Prix and the results will be considered before allowing him to race there.”The Honda-powered team’s reserve driver, the Belgian Stoffel Vandoorne, will take Alonso’s place in Bahrain.</content>
<class_name>Fernando Alonso,Formula One,Motor sport,Formula One 2016,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:51:48+0100</date>
<title>Fernando Alonso to miss Bahrain Grand Prix due to Melbourne crash injuries</title>
<content>fter back-to-back nights locked in a detention center during the peak of a training camp for the most important fight of his career, Jon Jones will awake Thursday and head to an 8am court appearance for felony parole violation.The gifted, troubled and deposed 28-year-old UFC light heavyweight champion  last week in his adopted hometown of Albuquerque, New Mexico, receiving five moving violations that sent Jones into a bodycam-captured tirade against Jason Brown, the officer who pulled him over. None of that is supposed to land a person in jail, but court orders and the New Mexico Corrections Department, which administers Jones’s 18-month supervised probation handed down following an injury-inducing hit-and-run accident one year ago, aren’t things to be trifled with.Adding another irksome anecdote to the saga of the Jones boys from Rochester, New York, Jon, the fighter, conducted himself in such a way outside the cage that it may yet again slow him down inside one. A frustrating fact considering Jones’s propensity for making poor choices appears to be the only impediment to his all-time greatness. Less than four weeks ahead of his scheduled return to the octagon – the first bout for Jones after 15 life-exposing and -altering months – Jones faces down an old nemesis. Not current beltwarmer Daniel Cormier, whom Jones seems to genuinely despise, but something more significant and threatening: turmoil of his own making.Think about what must’ve been going on in Jones’s mind as he was cited for what amounts to a normal part of the day for many young men across America. Jones felt a police officer from a department that he literally ran from was being unfair to him. So he lashed out. Maybe Jones reacted to the fact that here he was, sober, getting pinched for revving the engine of his Corvette, a trifling act compared to others on his resume. It could be Jones knows he has no rope to play with, and another screw up might be the one that costs him dearly – like two nights locked up in the middle of camp, or a cancelled fight, or a what-if career – so he barked and blamed in a show befitting an affected and privileged person. After all, he received another pass when he was pulled over in February and failed to produce his license, registration or proof of insurance. But not this time.If the drag racing allegations are true – Jones sure didn’t think so – a childish act could turn into so much more adult. Stakes are at their highest for Jones while he needs to remain focused on staying sober, which we know he was not ahead of the first fight with Cormier.Of all the locations Jones’s frustration could have come from, one hopes it’s that he finally realized what’s at stake. But then you wonder why a driven person with a terrible driving record so much hanging in the balance would screw around in fast cars with big engines. For someone so combustible, how is Jones even in charge of his own transportation at this point?Jones has already issued his mea culpa. Not many people get those. Fewer are allowed more than one. He promised to get sober. He enjoyed speaking with kids and found motivation in different ways. Jones has the ability to evoke sympathy and was given a get out of jail free card, and yet, three weeks before  197, drama has descended on another one of his fights.I expect Jones’s rematch with Cormier to happen mostly because history suggests it will, and if the light heavyweights do square up they should deliver one of the top fights of the year. However on the off chance a tap of the gas keeps Jones from fighting at UFC 197 in Las Vegas, not all will be lost. There are more than a handful of fights in April, a busy month for  across the globe, worth watching closely.“Big” Ben is rolling, taking four straight stoppages including a stunning choke of Josh Barnett. Rothwell has never looked better, and a win brings an improbable title shot into light. JDS has spun his wheels since the unsuccessful rematch with Cain Velasquez, alternating wins and losses. A defeat to Rothwell would make JDS 3-4 since 2012, but a win puts him right at the top of the list for compelling fights. They meet in Zagreb, Croatia, at UFC Fight Night 86, on 10 April.Ben Askren has been a suffocating welterweight, and for several years considered among the best mixed martial artists operating outside the UFC. Now the American wrestler moves up in weight to 185lbs as a reaction to weight cutting rules instituted by Asian MMA promoter One FC in the wake of a fighter’s death from dehydration. Askren takes on another 170-pound convert in Russia’s Nokilay Aleksakhin, 15 April in Manila, in a “welterweight” title fight at 185 pounds. Unified Rules need not apply. The fighter to watch is McKee, son of longtime competitor Antonio McKee. AJ was raised in the gym and through three fights has shown a smoothness to his finishing ability that suggests big things. Belluardo, a 21-year-old from Milan, which is much closer to Bellator 152’s host city of Torino, Italy, than McKee’s hometown of Long Beach, California, hasn’t faced anyone like the American. Belluardo can make a huge statement for Italian MMA if he finds a way to win.Whether or not Jones fights Cormier this month, this matchup of lightweights is my favorite contest coming up. Nurmagomedov hasn’t fought in two years and the UFC did him no favors by matching him with the buzzsaw that is Tony Ferguson. Ring-rust and injury questions only adds to the anticipation. The Dagestani bear wrestler has so far been able to manhandle the best at 155, including current champion Rafael dos Anjos, but Ferguson brings all sorts of prickly things with him into the fight, and it should amount to a tremendous bit of MMA on FOX when the UFC heads to Tampa, Fla., on 16 April.Since Ben Askren left, the Bellator welterweight division has been slow to gain traction. Former UFC lightweight champion Benson Henderson expects attention to follow him as he makes his Bellator debut at the Mohegan Sun in a title challenge against talented once-beaten titleholder Andrey Koreskhov. I chatted with Henderson on Wednesday and he expressed how much he would like to become the first WEC, UFC and Bellator champion. A win over the Russian on 22 April in Uncasville, Connecticut, would mark Henderson’s first title at 170lbs. If Koreshkov retains it would lend credence to the idea that Bellator’s welterweight class post-Askren is worth paying attention to. It should be a fun fight.Put up or shut up time for Henry Cejudo, a gold medal winning wrestler for the US in 2008. His career has been managed very carefully to this point. Did the grooming prepare him well enough for Demetrious Johnson, who could very well be the most dominant fighter in the sport right now? Athletically Cejudo can measure up. Wrestling-wise he can obviously do some things. He’s tried to mix it up, but hasn’t appeared at ease in the Octagon. Johnson is scientific in his approach and exact in his results. No one mixes levels better. “Mighty Mouse” versus the Olympian, fun stuff in Las Vegas on 23 April.</content>
<class_name>UFC,MMA,US sports,Extreme sports,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:45:11+0100</date>
<title>High stakes for fallen UFC star Jon Jones both inside octagon and out</title>
<content>A professional surfer who was attacked by a shark off a beach near Kiama is in a critical but stable condition.The 22-year-old man, named in the media as Brett Connellan, was surfing with friends when the shark attacked, ripping into his upper left thigh and goring his hand at Bombo beach at 7pm on Wednesday. His friend, Joel Trist, swam to his aid and managed to get him to shore on the back of his board. Trist said he was about 50m down the beach from his friend when he realised his friend was in trouble.“The first thing I saw was Brett getting thrashed around in the water and a terrible scream,” he told reporters on Thursday. “Acting on instinct, I just paddled as hard as I could towards him and even lost sight of him at one stage.”Trist then pulled his friend on to his board before heading to shore.“I just said to him, ‘what’s it like?’ and he said ‘it’s not good’ and at that point I knew something was horribly wrong.”Ambulance NSW district officer Inspector Terry Morrow said: “[Connellan] had lost a large proportion of his left thigh, and the quad muscle was torn away right down to the bone.” Morrow said beachgoers saved Connellan’s life by applying a tourniquet to his upper thigh.“He could’ve bled to death before we arrived on scene. He was very lucky the members of the public were there and acted as they did. They saved his life, to tell you the truth.”Connellan underwent surgery at Sydney’s St George hospital and remains in a critical but stable condition. He told emergency services he didn’t see the shark when it attacked him.A paramedic told Fairfax Media the surfer was “missing three-quarters of his thigh”.Shark expert Michael Brown from Surf Watch Australia has judged the shark to be either a great white or bronze whaler.“If we look at the horrific injury, it’s probably fairly obvious it’s a great white or a bronze whaler,” he told the Seven Network.Connellan was surfing in the southern end of Bombo beach at dusk on Wednesday, which Brown said was the time sharks were most active and hunting.“Especially sharks like great whites. They have a greater ability to be able to see in low light,” he said.At least 14 shark attacks were recorded in NSW last year, nine of them along a 70km stretch of coast in northern NSW, from Evans Head to Byron Bay.</content>
<class_name>Sharks,New South Wales,Marine life,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:57:21+0100</date>
<title>Pro surfer critically injured after being mauled by shark on NSW south coast</title>
<content>Darren Sammy has said West Indies are ready to take on a whole nation when they aim to knock India out of the  in Mumbai. to stay on course for the final at Eden Gardens on Sunday, with Virat Kohli scoring a fine unbeaten 82 off only 51 balls.West Indies, meanwhile, suffered a shock defeat by Afghanistan in their last match of the Super 10 phase, although they had already qualified for the semi-finals following wins against , Sri Lanka and .Sammy, though, maintains his team will be ready to upset the form book at the Wankhede Stadium on Thursday.“It is going to be 15 West Indian players versus thousands and how many billion here in India. It is a challenge we are ready to face,” the captain said. “The guys who predict the results, I think they say it’s 80‑20 to India, so it feels like a David and Goliath – but people tend to forget that David won the fight. It is something similar to that.”Their batsman Andre Fletcher has been ruled out with a hamstring injury so Lendl Simmons, who plays for Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League, has been called up as the replacement.Sammy accepts with the likes of Chris Gayle now 36, a lot of the current squad are heading into what could well be their final World T20, aiming to repeat their triumph of 2012 in Sri Lanka. “The next T20 World Cup is in four years. The World Universe Boss [Gayle] will be 40. I will be 36, so yes, we really put our all into this tournament and the guys in the dressing room are aware of what’s at stake,” he said.“It is six steps to the cup. We have taken four, we had a little pothole in the road [against Afghanistan] but we will brush ourselves off and the step tomorrow is against India and we are looking forward to it. I think this year could be the year for the West Indies.”India, the world’s top-ranked side in the format, came into the sixth edition of the tournament having won 10 out of their 11 matches in 2016 and were considered favourites by fans, opposing captains and bookmakers alike.West Indies, the 2012 champions, on the other hand were busy sorting out a contractual dispute with their board just weeks ahead of the start and did not play a single international  before arriving in India.“The issues before the tournament, the lack of respect for our T20 team … a lot has been said about this team and we as a group that brought us closer together,” Sammy said. “We saw a lot was against us … we think it’s us against the world. It’s only us in our own little circle and that’s the way we have gone out and played. Tomorrow is no bigger day to express that.”The India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh has been ruled out of the rest of the competition after twisting an ankle while batting in the game against Australia in Mohali. Manish Pandey, a middle-order batsman, has been approved as a replacement by the ICC.India’s team director Ravi Shastri maintains there can be no complacency within the squad, having opened the tournament with defeat by New Zealand.“West Indies are probably one of the most dangerous sides in this format – they have got explosive players and match winners. We know what we are up against, but we are up and ready as well,” Shastri said.“I still believe we have played only at 70% of our ability in this tournament. There are areas where we can improve. In a semi-final, you cannot depend on just one or two players, you need six to seven players to step up. It has not happened really so far in the tournament for us, so let’s hope [this] is the start.”</content>
<class_name>West Indies cricket team,India cricket team,World Twenty20,Twenty20,Cricket,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T23:00:31+0100</date>
<title>West Indies ready to ‘take on the whole of India’ in World T20 semi-final</title>
<content>Hungary’s rightwing government has claimed  that supports its upcoming anti-migrant quota referendum that there are 900 “no-go zones” in London, Paris, Stockholm and Berlin.The Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orbán, has refused to participate in the EU’s quota plan to relocate 160,000 migrants across the continent, calling it an abuse of power. In typically robust style, last year he said: “In three years we might not know whether we are in , Paris or Budapest.”A referendum to be held in the autumn will ask: “Do you want the EU to prescribe the mandatory relocation of non-Hungarian citizens to  without the approval of the Hungarian parliament?”The government page entitled “We say no to mandatory migrant quotas” defines the 900 “no-go zones” as “neighbourhoods not under control, or hardly kept under control”, where “the norms of the host society … barely prevail”. When asked to name the areas of London considered off-limits, government spokesman Zoltán Kovács told the Guardian: “Everything is based on publicly available data and sources.” However, the Hungarian state ministry mainly cited blogs and conspiracy websites as evidence. According to the government, 751 of the “no-go zones” are in France. The ministry quoted about France’s  (Sensitive Urban Zones) by the academic Daniel Pipes, who is said to have first used the phrase “no-go zone” to apply to neighbourhoods with high immigrant populations. However Pipes, an academic best known for claiming the US president, Barack Obama, was a practising Muslim, later retracted this statement after visiting . “Having this first-hand experience, I regret having translated what the French government terms  as no-go zones,” he wrote in 2013.Other evidence presented by the ministry included with a dead link to a map of 55 “hot zones” identified by the Swedish police, who, the blogger adds, do not in fact use the term “no-go zones”. It also named the trendy  as a “no-go zone”.The ministry also sent as supporting evidence  about the Brussels district of Molenbeek in the wake of the November terrorist attacks in Paris. The official government web page, which went live on Wednesday, also features sections including “The Compulsory Resettlement Quota Increases Terror Risk” and “The Compulsory Resettlement Quota Threatens Our Culture”, and a ticking clock supposedly representing a migrant entering Europe every 12 seconds. However, according to , that figure inflates the current reality on the Hungarian border by over 6,000%. </content>
<class_name>Migration,Hungary,European Union,Europe,London,Paris,France,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:30:15+0100</date>
<title>Migration crisis: Hungarian government says EU cities have 900 no-go zones</title>
<content>The  is to press ahead with proposals to allow loud underwater prospecting for oil and gas off the east coast, even though the practice has been likened to being at the “epicenter of a grenade blast” for whales and other marine creatures sensitive to noise.The federal  (BOEM) is considering  for seismic airgun testing which environmentalists say would imperil at-risk whales, sea turtles, sharks and other fish species.Despite the Obama administration’s recent decision to , the airgun testing applications will still be assessed. The seismic airguns are used to emit repetitive blasts of compressed air through the water until they hit the seabed. The echoes from this process can be used to determine if there are deposits of oil and gas beneath the sea floor.Applications for this testing cover vast areas of the Atlantic stretching from Delaware to Florida. Opponents of the testing claim it could potentially drive whales and fish from their habitat and interfere with their ability to find food and mate.“We know that endangered whales and fish all change their behavior because of these blasts,” said Dr Ingrid Biedron, marine scientist at conservation group Oceana. “Whales use sound to find partners and food and we are worried these behaviors will be interrupted, or they may be displaced.“Since the Atlantic has been removed from drilling for the next five years, there’s no immediate need for companies to prospect for oil and gas in this way. We’d encourage them, and the government, to wait until there is safer technology available before going ahead with this.”, the noise from airgun testing can travel for more than 2,500 miles and can “disrupt behavior patterns”.Nowacek said the sound bursts can reach 260 decibels, which is similar to being at “the epicenter of a grenade blast and would easily cause the rupture of the human eardrum”.BOEM said the applications will go ahead as they are separate from the decision to rule out drilling in the Atlantic. The federal agency said the testing could be used for other scientific purposes and would only be allowed if there is “negligible impact” upon marine mammals.“We will continue with this unless the companies withdraw .It’s totally up to them if they want to continue,” said a BOEM spokesman, John Filostrat.Filostrat said there are several “mitigation measures” that lessen the impact upon whales. They  a stipulation that airguns are ramped up over a 20-minute period to allow marine life to leave the area and acoustic monitoring for animals that would trigger a shutdown of blasting if they do reappear.Other restrictions, such as limits on the amount of blasting time and measures to avoid collision between vessels and whales, can also be imposed. These processes have been put in place in the Gulf of Mexico, which is a hotspot for oil drilling, but haven’t been seen in the Atlantic for over 30 years due to a federal ban on fossil fuel exploitation in the area.</content>
<class_name>Marine life,Whales,Cetaceans,Wildlife,Obama administration,Oil,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:00:08+0100</date>
<title>Deafening Atlantic oil prospecting to go ahead despite threat to marine life</title>
<content> has approved large-scale logging in Europe’s last primeval woodland in a bid to combat a beetle infestation despite protests from scientists, ecologists and the European Union.The action in the Białowieża forest is intended to fight the spread of the spruce bark beetle.“We’re acting to curb the degradation of important habitats, to curb the disappearance and migration of important species from this site,” the environment minister, Jan Szyszko, said.Szyszko vowed that the logging plans would not apply to strictly protected areas of the primeval forest that was designated a  World Heritage site in 1979.But under the new plan, loggers will harvest more than 180,000 cubic metres (6.4m cubic feet) of wood from other areas of the forest over a decade, dwarfing previous plans to harvest 40,000 cubic metres over the same period. Vowing to protect the forest, Greenpeace accused Szyszko of “ignoring the voices of citizens and scientists, the European Commission, Unesco and conservation organisations.”Along with other environmental groups protesting the move, Greenpeace also said the logging could trigger the EU to launch punitive procedures against Poland for violating its Natura 2000 program.Sprawling across 150,000 hectares, the Białowieża forest reaches across the Polish border with Belarus, where it is entirely protected as a nature park.It is home to 20,000 animal species, including 250 types of bird and 62 species of mammals – among them Europe’s largest, the bison.Europe’s tallest trees, firs towering 50m high (164ft), and oaks and ashes of 40m, also flourish here, in an ecosystem unspoiled for more than 10 millennia.</content>
<class_name>Deforestation,Poland,Europe,Conservation,Unesco,United Nations,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T01:54:03+0000</date>
<title>Poland approves large-scale logging in Europe's last primeval forest</title>
<content>Endangered orcas in the inland waters of  will now have individual health records, which researchers hope will help them identify threats to the whales’ health.There are typically 84 whales residing in Puget Sound from spring to fall. These were listed as endangered in 2005 and are both genetically and behaviorally distinct from other killer whales. They use distinct calls to communicate and eat salmon rather than other marine mammals. Because of pollution, lack of prey and disturbance from boats, their numbers have fluctuated in the past few decades.The whales are already thoroughly tracked and recorded. Researchers trail them by sea and with drones, keeping track of their measurements, waste and exhaled breath. Individual health records, that combine all of the existing research on the whales, will be added to this program. On Tuesday, during a meeting in Seattle sponsored by SeaDoc Society, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Noaa) Fisheries and the National Marine Mammal Foundation, more than two dozen wildlife experts discussed how this would be executed.The records will include data on behavior, reproductive success, skin diseases and more, Lynne Barre with Noaa Fisheries told the Associated Press. They will be used to monitor individual health as well as overall trends.“The goal is to really start getting a lot of data and pull them together in a way that permits easier analysis,” Joe Gaydos, a wildlife veterinarian at the University of California Davis, told the AP.“Ultimately, the real benefit of any health record is to help make [management] decisions,” he added.The records will help identify threats to the orcas’ health and provide insight into how to reduce or fix them, according to researchers.“It will be really powerful to rule out things that aren’t important and focus in on what’s really important,” Barre told the AP.An initial database will be launched this summer using information on sex, age and gender as a starting point, according to Gaydos. Additional information will be added next year. Some details, such as who will manage the data and who will have access to it, have not yet been worked out.</content>
<class_name>Whales,Washington state,Cetaceans,Marine life,Wildlife,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:48:26+0100</date>
<title>Endangered whales in Washington's Puget Sound to get individual records</title>
<content>In recent months, Tesco, Asda and Morrisons have introduced  that incentivise customers to buy “imperfect” vegetables. It’s a move designed to tackle the 12m tonnes of food waste created every year by UK households, hospitality and food service, food manufacture and the retail and wholesale sectors. And comes after high profile activists, including , have drawn increasing attention to the issue. With a value of more than £19bn a year, Wrap estimates that 75% of this food waste  (pdf).In an effort to reduce food waste and ease food poverty at the same time, France has banned supermarkets from throwing away or destroying unsold food,  it to charities and food banks. Campaigners hope other countries will follow suit.Beyond supermarkets, other businesses are finding ways to help tackle waste. London’s Hackney Brewery recently launched Toast Ale, a beer made using surplus bread from bakeries and supermarkets. While Rubies in the Rubble  to make chutney and jam from their surplus fruit and vegetables.Join a panel of experts on in the comments section on this page to discuss how businesses can help prevent food waste, and create business opportunities that get value from food waste., business sector manager, , regional commercial manager, , founder of , campaign and media coordinator, , business development manager for Origin Green co-ordinator, You can submit questions for the panel in advance using the form below or tweeting them to  using #askGSB.</content>
<class_name>Waste,Food,Recycling,Ethical and green living,Supermarkets,Retail industry,Food poverty,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T11:51:38+0100</date>
<title>Can supermarkets do more than sell wonky veg to tackle food waste? - live chat</title>
<content>A new national definition for what constitutes a free-range egg falls short of consumer expectations, advocacy groups have warned.State and commonwealth ministers on Thursday agreed on a legal definition of free-range, meaning a standard on animal welfare will be put in place for the first time.In order to be labelled free-range, products need to have a minimum standard stocking density of 10,000 chickens per hectare, or one chicken every square metre. Animal rights groups had wanted a density of no more than 1,500 chickens per hectare, a limit supported by the .“Allowing a stocking density of 10,000 hens per hectare is out of step with consumer expectations and accepted animal welfare standards. Consumers expect the ‘free-range’ label to signify high animal welfare standards with genuinely free ranging chickens – not an intensive farming operation,” the ACT’s consumer affairs minister, Shane Rattenbury, said. “I wrote to all ministers prior to today’s meeting, asking them to agree to a national definition of free range that ensures enhanced animal welfare standards, and sets a maximum free range stocking density of 1,500 hens per hectare.”The national standards also legislate that chickens have “meaningful and regular” access to an outdoor range, but do not specify the definitions of the terms.“The definition of free-range as hens having ‘meaningful and regular access to the outdoors’ could allow producers to call their eggs free-range even if chickens stay inside a barn all day,” Tom Godfrey from consumer group, Choice, said. “A standard with integrity would require that most hens go outside on most ordinary days.”Egg Farmers Australia said the issue of movement has sparked an “emotional debate” in the past.“This is a commonsense resolution to what has been an unnecessarily complicated issue,” spokesman for the group, John Coward, said.“Free-range hens are free. They are free from cages, free to move about inside the barn and importantly they are free to go outside if and when they choose to,” he said. “The decision by ministers to define free-range hens as having meaningful and regular access to an outdoor range where they are free to roam and forage brings common sense to an emotional debate.”The federal small business minister, Kelly O’Dwyer, said the new standards created a “sensible” definition of free range.“It means that the chook is able to get out of the barn, it’s able to scratch around in the pasture and it’s able to range, and being not impeded in that range is exactly what we mean by free-range eggs,” she told reporters. “At the moment there is a lot of confusion that forcing chooks out into the range on most days in all sorts of weather conditions wasn’t necessarily going to be in the best interests of the chooks.”Agriculture groups welcomed the new standard.“The new definition is fundamentally about doing the right thing by consumers to ensure they can make informed decisions about what eggs they wish to buy based on known factors,” the managing director of the Australian Egg Corporation Limited, James Kellaway, said.Coward said the national standards gave both consumers and the egg sector certainty. A number of egg producers had been  by falsely labelling their products “free range”.</content>
<class_name>Farming,Animals,Coag (Council of Australian governments),Australian politics,Business (Australia),Australian Capital Territory,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T05:51:03+0100</date>
<title>Free-range egg definition criticised as soon as ministers announce it</title>
<content>At 3pm on Thursday, the turbines of  time. Coal, the lifeblood of the British economy for more than two centuries and now a terrible burden on the climate, is drawing its final breaths before an inevitable death. The question is: how long can it cling on?Longannet’s closure is the first in a year that will see a cascade of further shutdowns. Units at Rugeley, Eggborough, Ferrybridge and Fiddlers Ferry will all go cold over the coming summer months,  of Britain’s coal-generating capacity in the turn of a season. This follows the closure of 8GW of ageing coal plants since 2012. many of the recent closures, with old, dirty plants unable to afford the remedial measures needed to meet tightened restrictions. But this initial strangulation has been overlaid by falling gas prices and the growth of renewable energy, both of which have driven the wholesale price of electricity down by 60% since the beginning of 2014. Unlike gas, coal has high material transport costs and is more heavily affected by the UK’s carbon floor price. All of this means burning coal for power is an increasingly tough business to be in.By the end of this year, just six stations will remain active. The five on the mainland have received backing from the government’s capacity market until 2021 (Belfast’s Kilroot plant feeds the all-Ireland market). The capacity market guarantees a steady electricity supply by offering support to generators in return for a commitment to provide a certain amount of power to the grid. But in February, that guarantee was shaken when the operator of  that despite winning government support for three of its four units until 2019, it would be cutting its losses and shutting down.  dramatic changes in the generation market and opted to pay out the government contract of £33m rather than take on “unsustainable losses” into the future.The remaining operators are outwardly confident about their short-term future. But their language comes with heavy caveats. A spokeswoman for RWE’s Aberthaw station - which is currently the subject of a  over breached NOx emissions - said: “We are working to secure that station into the 2020s and are optimistic about its survival, but in a changing market you can only do what you can do.”The coal industry faces “extremely challenging times” said a spokeswoman for EDF. But she said seven out of eight of the company’s units at Cottam and West Burton have won capacity market contracts until 2021, indicating the company’s intention to keep them open until at least that time.At the Kilroot station, operator AES has made big investments in emissions scrubbing devices in order to continue until at least 2020. AES communications manager Claire Addison said the plant was exploring options to go until 2023, but “changing commodity prices have made this more challenging”.Britain’s largest power station, Drax, has been slowly converting its units to biomass, although it offers no timeframe for a complete switch.The industry’s own trade association paints an even less optimistic picture. Kyle Martin, a senior policy manager with  UK, said the decision taken by the Fiddlers Ferry plant raised serious concerns about the viability of the remaining coal plants.“If things stay the same or get worse, I don’t think they’ll be making money going forward,” he said. “There’s only so many years you can run a plant making a loss before the decision has to come.”The Department for Energy and Climate Change’s (Decc)’s  for the price of electricity will therefore make grim reading for those working in the coal sector. No lift is expected before the end of the decade. The very same low electricity price that is pushing coal to the edge has also  the government had wanted to encourage through the capacity market. Meanwhile, plans to expand the nuclear sector . This raises the prospect of a coal collapse at a time when there is little to replace it, said Jim Watson, director of the UK Energy Research Centre.“Of course we want them to close,” said Watson. “I’m very supportive of that. But having them close at a time when you’ve got the other capacity coming online is the challenge. It’s managing that transition.”This is why Decc has  and introduce a proposed new round of funding for 2017/18. The move, said Watson, was clearly aimed at driving gas investment. But if that doesn’t materialise it will further subsidise the continuation of coal.“The implication is that consumers will pay more for this than they would have done otherwise. But that may be needed,” Watson told the Guardian. “Clearly the government are not going to preside over the lights going out. I would say that a lot of the press coverage is often a little bit overblown about this. We have got in place the instruments to manage this.”All of this is occurring against a the backdrop of an apparently arbitrary date of 2025,  for the end of coal generation in the UK. But no detail has been released regarding the structure of this phase out.This has left companies unsure about how to proceed with the investments they need to stay viable, said Martin. “Certainty is always useful. Trying to bid in for anything with questions being left by government isn’t useful.”In the absence of a concrete policy, the decision will remain an economic one. If market conditions improve, then  that coal, the most carbon-intensive form of electricity, could possibly hold out until 2030. But the end of coal seems likely to come sooner rather than later.</content>
<class_name>Coal,Energy,Fossil fuels,Pollution,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T12:05:25+0000</date>
<title>How long can the UK's coal industry survive?</title>
<content>Yet another global heat record has been beaten. It appears January 2016 - the most abnormally hot month in history,  - will be comprehensively trounced once official figures come in for February. Initial satellite measurements, , put February’s anomaly from the pre-industrial average between  and . The UN Paris climate agreement struck in December seeks to limit warming to 1.5C if possible.“Even the lower part of that range is extraordinary,” said Will Steffen, an emeritus professor of climate science at Australian National University and a councillor at Australia’s Climate Council. It appears that , the northern hemisphere even slipped above the milestone 2C average for the first time in recorded history. This is the arbitrary limit above which scientists believe global temperature rise will be “dangerous”.The Arctic in particular experienced terrific warmth throughout the winter. Temperatures at the north pole  – 30C to 35C above average. Mark Serreze, the director of the US National Snow and Ice Data Centre, described the conditions as “absurd”.“The heat has been unrelenting over the entire season,” he said. “I’ve been studying Arctic climate for 35 years and have never seen anything like this before”.All this weirdness follows the record-smashing year of 2015, which was . This beat the previous record warmth of 2014 by 0.16C.These tumbling temperature records are often  that we are experiencing a particularly strong El Niño - perhaps the largest in history. But should El Niño and climate change be given equal billing?No, according to Professor Michael Mann, the director of Penn State Earth System Science Centre. He said it was possible to look back over the temperature records and assess the impact of an El Niño on global temperatures.“A number of folks have done this,” he said, “and come to the conclusion it was responsible for less than 0.1C of the anomalous warmth. In other words, we would have set an all-time global temperature record [in 2015] even without any help from El Niño.”Global surface temperature is the major yardstick used to track how we are changing the climate. It is the average the  refers to.But the atmosphere doesn’t stop at the surface.  by the greenhouse gases humans have emitted gets sunk into the oceans – just 1% ends up in the atmosphere where temperature is most often and most thoroughly measured. During El Niño, which occurs every three to six years, currents in the Pacific Ocean bring warm water to the surface and heat up the air.Jeff Knight from the Met Office’s Hadley Centre, said their modelling set the additional heat from a big El Niño, like the current one, at about 0.2C. He said wind patterns in the northern hemisphere had added another 0.1C to recent monthly readings.“The bottom line is that the contributions of the current El Niño and wind patterns to the very warm conditions globally over the last couple of months are relatively small compared to the  increase in global temperature since pre-industrial times,” he added.Steffen said the definitive assessment of this El Niño and its effect on the world’s temperature would only be possible once the event had run its course (it has now peaked and is  in the second quarter of this year). But he agreed that past El Niño cycles could be an appropriate guide for the order of magnitude of the effect. The picture becomes less clear cut when we talk about monthly records. Even weather trends can have small effects on the monthly average temperature, said Knight. The effect of El Niño traditionally increases as it dies, so Mann believes it may have added more than the “nominal” o.1C during the past three months.In the Arctic, the effect of El Niño is poorly understood but likely to be weak, said Knight. “Given that the Arctic has been very warm for a number of years, with , it is more likely that the warmth there currently is part of a long-term trend rather than the response to a episodic event like El Niño.”Steffen says quantifying the relative contributions of El Niño and climate change on a monthly or even annual basis cannot help to answer how fast the world is warming. Only trends over 30 years really matter.But the pile up of records we have had in the early part of this century are significant. All things being constant, record hot years should occur once every 150 years. Yet 1998, 2005, 2010, 2014 and 2015 have all been record breakers.A study published in January found that even without last year’s mammoth anomaly .“The fact that you are getting records so close, one after the other is really striking. And that is symptomatic of that long-term trend,” said Steffen.But while they may be poor signals for long-term climate change, record hot months and years do have an immediate and tangible impact. “It’s making heat waves worse. Here in Australia it bumps up the bushfire danger weather really fast. It tends to lead to drier conditions in our part of the world. These things are exacerbated by El Niños, so I don’t want to downplay the importance of them for human suffering,” said Steffen.</content>
<class_name>Climate change,El Niño southern oscillation,Sea ice,Greenhouse gas emissions,Polar regions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-04T06:00:26+0000</date>
<title>Why is 2016 smashing heat records?</title>
<content>Everywhere you look right now, the Earth’s climate system seems to be breaking records. To choose the most inappropriate metaphor possible, Figures from  using thermometers and ocean temperature readings showed February was the hottest month on record, by quite a margin.According to satellite data, the amount of  since measurements began in 1979.Scientists also use satellite data to calculate air temperatures. Climate science  because they have not shown as much warming as the more reliable readings on the surface. But February  for global temperatures from satellites. As Joe Romm at  noted, “climate science deniers need a new meme”.These heat records have been variously described as “”, “” and “”.One climate scientist in particular, Professor Stefan Rahmstorf, appeared to capture the mood with a quote repeated in stories around the world, including here on the Guardian.“We are in a kind of climate emergency now,” said Rahmstorf, of Germany’s Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. But here’s the rub. To climate scientists like Rahmstorf, the temperature records being broken right now are not a surprise and, at least according to Rahmstorf, they shouldn’t be seen as an entry point to some terrifying new era (at least not as terrifying as things already are). “The media’s view is too short-term,” he told me. “As scientists we want to keep an overview of all the data and the knowledge of how the whole system works.”Rahmstorf does think there is a climate emergency, but he would have made the same assessment at any point in time stretching back many years. The record-breaking February doesn’t change that.The vast majority of the extra carbon dioxide and heat being added into the Earth’s biosphere ends up in the oceans, where heat has been building up since the early 1970s. What the ocean doesn’t take up, is left to accumulate in the atmosphere.There are two long-term records of the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere, measures as parts of CO2 per million parts of the atmosphere (ppm). Instruments at Mauna Loa in  have been showing the accumulation of CO2 since the 1950s.Last year though saw  since records started. CO2 is now above 400ppm there.Australia holds the other long-term record of CO2 in the atmosphere – taken at the aptly-named , in Tasmania. Here, the very latest readings for February 2016 show CO2 at 398.71ppm. At some point in the coming months, the Cape Grim data will also tip above 400 ppm.If you want records, then these readings in Hawaii and Tasmania have been breaking them pretty much year on year for decades. According to the Geological Society, there is , chiefly from burning fossil fuels.The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has also been . Since the early 1990s, there has also been an  to convince the public and policy-makers that there is no climate emergency, that global warming might not be happening and, if it is, that it might not be caused by humans.Recent studies suggest that the “thinktanks” central to this effort  using their suite of fake experts and cherry-picked pseudo-science.But there was another chunk of data released in Australia this week suggesting the Australian public might be getting the message that not only is it getting bloody warm out there, but that human activity is behind it. For seven years, the polling and communications agency Essential Media Communications has been asking Australians about their views on climate change. EMC has asked the public if they think there is “fairly conclusive evidence” that climate change is happening and – more to the point – that it is caused by humans, or if they think it’s all just a “normal fluctuation”. This week, the level of acceptance that climate change is happening and is human caused hit an .EMC director Peter Lewis says the question of whether the public accepts the evidence that humans are the cause of climate change is “one of the most important indicators in the climate debate”.He says a low point for this indicator was around late 2010 when Tony Abbott took over the Liberal party leadership from Malcolm Turnbull.Lewis thinks that while climate change campaigners will be disappointed at the lack of policy change since Turnbull became prime minister, the “conditions for some sort of action are more conducive now than they were under Abbott”.“The heat has gone out of the political debate on climate change now, as far as belief is concerned,” says Lewis.As for the tumbling heat records, Lewis says: “For those that want action on climate change, all this heat becomes a pressure point.”</content>
<class_name>Climate change
(Environment),Climate change
(Science),Climate change scepticism,Hawaii,Greenhouse gas emissions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-17T20:00:40+0000</date>
<title>Welcome to the climate emergency: you’re about 20 years late</title>
<content>A brewery has been fined £100,000 for polluting a tributary of the Thames in Hampshire.Molson Coors Brewery (UK) Ltd was sentenced by Basingstoke Magistrates Court on 17 March after pleaded guilty to two offences: causing an illegal water discharge activity and breaching its environmental permit.It was fined £100,000 with £31,586 costs for breaching the .The Environment Agency (EA) received reports of fungus in a stream outside a residential development in Alton, Hampshire. EA officers traced the pollution to Molson Coors’ Alton brewery. Trade effluent was seen discharging into a culvert of the Lasham drain, which carries surface water runoff and is a tributary of the River Wey, through cracks and defects in the culvert chamber.The company had failed to respond to the regular monitoring and visual inspections it was obliged to carry out as a requirement of its environmental permit. This monitoring clearly indicated that there was a serious problem in the Lasham drain.The presence of large quantities of sewage fungus indicated that very high nutrient organic matter was entering the Lasham drain.The court heard that the drainage problems that caused the pollution led to a significant reduction in the water’s biological quality at Lasham drain and downstream in the Wey North, compared with upstream.The court heard that there had been gutters on the building known as the “boiler room” located next to a trade effluent chamber that ran directly to the Lasham drain.The gutters had been removed when the building was extended and the chamber was converted from a storm water drain to a trade waste effluent drain from this section of the building.When the alterations were made the contractors had used a liner which did not seal the chamber to divert the trade effluent, resulting in not completely blocking the existing pipe and pathway to the Lasham drain.In a statement, Molson Coors said it was serious about environmental compliance and regretted the “isolated incident”.“We wholly respect the magistrates’ decision and recognise this matter is now closed.“Molson Coors acknowledges it was a contributor to an already existing problem and we will continue to watch with interest as the Environment Agency pursues its investigation into other third parties’ involvement in this case.”</content>
<class_name>Water,Waste,Pollution,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-22T11:30:09+0000</date>
<title>Molson Coors brewery fined £100,000 for polluting Thames tributary</title>
<content>England’s men raced to  to send them off to Kolkata for their second WT20 final on Sunday having  in the Caribbean six years ago.Now either West Indies or the favourites, India, who meet in Mumbai on Thursday, will look at England with some apprehension after the way they devastated the Kiwis here.The target of 154 set by New Zealand was not so daunting though it might have been tricky but for a brilliant innings of 78 from 44 balls by Jason Roy. This was his highest T20 score for England and by the time he was dismissed only 44 more runs were required.Roy is not one of those cricketers, who suffers from paralysis by analysis – another reason why he is so effective in the shortest format of the game, where trusting one’s instincts is often the key to success. “That was pretty cool”, he said afterwards. “This seemed far, far away after the first game [when West Indies, in the form of ].” Roy’s batting philosophy has a familiar ring to it. “I watch the ball and try to hit it, hopefully into the gaps.”There has been much talk of the fearless, carefree approach of this England team and Roy seems to embody it precisely. “The boys were extremely chilled about this game. We just try to do what we do in practice. If it works, it works, if it doesn’t, it doesn’t. There will be bad days and good days. We are not a big talking side. We allow the players to do what they feel is right.”England did just about everything right on Wednesday. Roy was quick to focus upon the excellence of England’s pacemen, who restricted the Kiwi batsmen to 20 runs in the last four overs of their innings with Ben Stokes and Chris Jordan on top of their games.“They were outstanding,” said Roy. “They gave us the momentum at the end of their innings and we carried that on. The bowlers have grown in confidence after the Sri Lanka match. It almost seems as if that was a practice session now.”However, Roy made the chase a gentle stroll. He acknowledged that his innings was “right up there, pretty special” and that the team “is getting better with every game”.“It will be an incredible experience in Kolkata,” he said. “And we’ll play our natural way – just as we have over the last 12 months.” A brief summary of the approach included a reference to “all guns blazing”.For the New Zealanders there was an echo of the last World Cup in this defeat. Then, as now, they had played almost flawlessly through the group stages. Unfortunately their poorest performance came in a knockout match.Kane Williamson, who has impressed everyone in the infancy of his captaincy, was philosophical afterwards. “Twenty20 can be a fickle game. It was not meant to be,” he said. “We were about 25 short but England bowled really well in the death period. And Roy was superb. Today we were up against a better team.”Overall he was proud of the Kiwis’ performance in the tournament, during which their spinners had startled opponents at four different venues. The Kiwis had a tougher itinerary than England but Williamson was not inclined to complain about that.Did he think that England could win the tournament? He paused and concluded: “Yes, I think England can win,” which excited Anglocentric observers who respect Williamson’s opinion. But then he added: “I also think anyone of the two other teams can win it. It’s whoever turns up on the day. There are a lot of uncontrollables but England are a very, very dangerous side, particularly on good surfaces.”On the evidence of Wednesday England will turn up with a spring in their step and a determination to continue playing their free-flowing game.</content>
<class_name>England cricket team,World Twenty20,New Zealand cricket team,Twenty20,Cricket,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T20:19:47+0100</date>
<title>Carefree Jason Roy promises England will continue to play natural game</title>
<content>After almost two years of coral bleaching, with some reefs bleaching twice and possibly three times since 2014, scientists have said that dire predictions of global coral decline made almost two decades ago may now be manifest.The rolling underwater heatwave has now , with mass die-offs expected along the northern quarter of the world’s preeminent coral ecosystem. Professor Nick Graham of Lancaster University said the devastation worldwide was probably now , which occurred during 1997-98 and wiped out 16% of the world’s reefs in a single year.“This is the big one that we’ve been waiting for. This is the 1997-98 equivalent, which we’ve been anticipating for a long time,” said the coral scientist. The full impact could not be known until the event had finally ended, added Graham. Models predict it will now head west into the Indian Ocean and could continue in the Pacific until early 2017.Dr Mark Eakin, the head of the US government’s Coral Reef Watch programme, said this year’s massive bleach conformed with a  in the wake of the 1998 event. Back then, Hoegh-Guldberg predicted coral reefs would catastrophically decline by the middle to end of this century as oceans warmed and bleaching events became an annual occurrence on most reefs.“What we’re seeing now is unfortunately saying that Ove’s paper was not alarmist,” said Eakin. “This year is especially telling. In the past, big bleaching events happened pretty much during the course of a year. This current bleaching event started in mid-2014.”Eakin said many scientist had predicted two or three-year-long events would not begin occurring until the 2020s: “Yet here we are now with back-to-back to sometimes-back-again bleaching.” bleaching occurs when the ocean temperature surpasses a natural threshold causing the tiny animals, called zooxanthellae, that give coral its brilliance to desert their polyp homes – leaving them bone white. Recovery tends to be patchy and slow. The concern that coral scientists hold for the future is that bleaching events will pile one atop the other, giving reefs no time to rebuild.But Graham held out some hope for the resilience of the reefs. He said that despite smaller bleaching events occurring throughout the past two decades, the next really massive event hadn’t come “as soon as Ove feared it would”. This had allowed some reefs time to bounce back.“After 1998 we were worried that they were going to become frequent quite quickly,” he said. “It’s been 18 years until this event which has been a blessing.” Robbed of the zooxanthellae that clear the corals of intrusive plants, some of the reefs bleached in the past two years will be taken over by weeds and algae, strangling any hope they can return.“But others will [recover],” said Graham. “Then the real question mark is how frequent these events are going to be. If it’s another 18 to 20 years until we get the next one, then a lot of reefs will have time to bounce back.”Both the 1998 event and this year have been related to very strong El Niño patterns – which wash warm water across the Pacific Ocean and trigger increased heat around the world. El Niño cycles are fickle, but turn roughly every two to seven years. But the last huge one was in 1998.“If these super El Niños occur on timescales shorter than a decade then I think that’s when we’re really going to start seeing the ratcheting down of a lot more reefs,” said Graham.Great uncertainty exists around the effect climate change will have on El Niño. Mat Collins, joint chair in climate change at the UK’s Met Office, said current models showed no consensus over whether the frequency or intensity of the cycle would increase, decrease or remain the same. However, predicting the behaviour of El Niño was incredibly complex and “we might see differences in future climate models as they improve”.Even so, El Niño is no longer the only cause of bleaching. In 2005 and 2010, large coral bleaching events occurred independently of the Pacific warming cycle.“As the temperature is creeping upwards [because of climate change], it takes less of an El Niño ... to cause a lot of bleaching,” said Eakin. “What we would have considered stressful temperatures back in the 1980s have become relatively normal summer temperatures now. That doesn’t mean the corals don’t mind it because a lot of them in fact are bleaching repeatedly.”The threat of an increasingly hot world has driven some adaptation among coral species and communities. Counterintuitively, being exposed to bleaching has actually made some reefs more resilient. This is because in some circumstances, the most fragile species of coral are killed off and stronger ones take over. “But in the process, you’re losing biodiversity, which is a big problem,” said Eakin. “The whole question is: are temperatures rising faster than corals are able to adapt? And the answer so far seems to be ‘yes’.”Ultimately, he said, the determining factor for reefs would be human efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. If the world could limit warming to 1.5C above normal, , then reefs could stand a chance.“Even at 2C [which governments have agreed to hold temperatures to] we are going to be seeing the loss of a lot of coral reefs around the world,” he said.</content>
<class_name>Coral,Marine life,Wildlife,Great Barrier Reef,Climate change,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-22T11:40:44+0000</date>
<title>Climate change warnings for coral reef may have come to pass, scientists say</title>
<content>There have been : scientists know that climate change is happening and it is largely caused by humans. I recently wrote about this , where I reviewed the studies. It turns out that the more scientists know about climate change, the more they are convinced that humans are warming the planet. In fact, the consensus is extraordinarily strong. But it isn’t just that the vast majority of scientists agree; it’s that the best scientist agree. We find that the contrarian scientists tend to be less accomplished, have had their research found to be incorrect time after time, and they produce less science. But very recently, a study from the George Mason University  was completed that adds to our knowledge on the consensus. Lead author Ed Maibach and his colleagues are very well-respected surveyors and scientists who study this topic. The study didn’t focus on what we think of as climate scientists – rather they polled meteorologists. There were actually two surveys that were merged. In one, the authors identified 1038 professionals currently working in broadcast meteorology from the American Meteorological Society (AMS). In a concurrent study, the authors obtained a list of members from the AMS who were not broadcast meteorologists. The two groups were asked a series of questions on whether climate change is occurring, the degree to which respondents felt humans were responsible, what could be done to minimize climate change, among others. The authors also asked about the educational background of the respondents.Not all members of the AMS are meteorologists. Additionally, someone working in meteorology is not necessarily a climate scientist. Similarly, a climate scientist is not necessarily a meteorologist. Sometimes these populations overlap but in many cases they do not. One thing that tends to differentiate practicing meteorologists from climate scientists is that meteorologists tend to observe short-term weather more, while climate scientists tend to look at long-term trends. While this difference may sound trivially obvious, it’s an important distinction to keep in mind because it suggests meteorologists may be more likely to see differences in observed weather patterns. Climate scientists would be less likely to be swayed by changes in weather patterns.So what did the survey find? First, nearly every meteorologist (96%) agrees that climate change is happening, and the vast majority are confident in their opinion. Only 1% felt that climate change isn’t happening (3% did not know). Next, a large majority feel that climate change is being caused by humans. For instance, 29% believe that the change is largely or entirely human caused; 38% think most of the change is from humans; 14% answered that humans and natural factors are about equally responsible. Only 5% felt that climate change is mainly natural.Another important finding is that most meteorologists feel that some of the change can be averted, based on how we react. Small minorities felt that a large amount of change can be averted or that climate change cannot be averted.These views have changed over the years. For instance, almost 20% of meteorologists say their opinion on climate has changed over the past five years. Of that group, the vast majority are more convinced that the climate is changing and they cite a variety of reasons including new research, seeing first-hand evidence, the consensus amongst climate scientists, or from interactions with climate scientists. A final important result is that only 37% of the AMS respondents consider themselves climate experts.Speaking more broadly about the meteorology community beyond the AMS, that population tends to be more skeptical that the Earth’s climate is changing. I tend to believe that the skepticism is partly because meteorologists in general focus on short-term events and also because a great many non-experts are counted as meteorologists (including people who do not have degrees in any science, let alone a meteorological science). Despite this, meteorologists’ views are important not only because they are a consistent scientific presence in many households, but also because the collective weather observation record from the meteorological community is a resource that is unmatched.With this new study, the meteorological consensus is seen to be nearly as strong as that in the climate science community. I asked author Ed Maibach for a summary and he told me: </content>
<class_name>Climate change scepticism,Climate change
(Environment),Climate change
(Science),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T11:00:23+0100</date>
<title>New survey finds a growing climate consensus among meteorologists</title>
<content>A joint US-Canadian declaration to help spur the transition to a low carbon economy passed the baton of global climate action from Barack Obama to  on Thursday – and brightened prospects for the Paris agreement., which roams from Arctic protection to plugging methane emissions from oil wells and pipelines to decarbonisation of the US and Canadian economies in the second half of this century, cements a new climate change partnership between neighbours after 15 years of pulling in opposite directions.It signals once again that Obama intends to keep pushing hard on climate change in what was supposed to be the lame duck phase of his presidency.And it improves the prospects of rallying countries to ratify  when it opens for signing on 22 April. The agreement needs to be signed by 55 countries responsible for 55% of global emissions to come into force.“The United States and  are fully united in combatting climate change,” Obama told a press conference at the White House on Thursday. “We are focusing on making sure the Paris agreement is fully implemented.”Trudeau agreed, describing the Paris agreement as an action plan, and the US and Canadian leaders as key players in ensuring its success.“That agreement is both a symbolic declaration of global cooperation on climate change as well a practical guide for growing our economies in a responsible and sustainable way,” he told the press conference. “We know that our international partners expect and, indeed, need leadership from us on this issue.”The US and Canada were committed to signing the Paris agreement as soon as possible, Trudeau went on, a move which could help the United Nations reach its goal of ratifying the agreement in 2016, before Obama leaves the White House.Thursday’s declaration marks the first time in 15 years that US and Canadian leaders have been in sync on climate change.George Bush pulled the US out of the Kyoto climate accords when he came to the White House in 2001. Stephen Harper, the Canadian prime minister,  and pushed aggressively the controversial Keystone XL pipeline, which would have ramped up production from the carbon-heavy Alberta tar sands.The two leaders began their relationship with some friction, with Obama  last November, days after Trudeau took office. The Canadian leader did not protest, however.But with the declaration of a shared vision on climate change, Trudeau is now cast as Obama’s heir – in terms of pressing for global actions. Once Obama leaves the White House, it will fall to Trudeau to maintain continuity of a North American climate plan should a Democrat takes the White House, or to help to keep the flame alive in the event a Republican wins the election and follows through on threats to overturn Obama’s policies. The concern for Obama’s long-term climate legacy was inherent in Thursday’s declaration, with the US and Canada pledging to deliver plans for decarbonising the post-2050 economy by the end of 2016. The neighbours also pledged to lobby other G20 countries to produce their long-term climate plans – a move which could boost international confidence that the Paris agreement is indeed putting the global economy on a low-carbon trajectory.That could help box in Obama’s successor – from either party – making it difficult to overturn the Paris agreement without the risk of antagonising an important ally and neighbour.The joint commitment to reduce methane emissions by up to 45% from 2012 by 2025 will have the most immediate impact in helping the US and Canada to hit the emissions reductions targets they offered at Paris.Emissions from methane – a far more powerful climate pollutant than carbon dioxide – .Campaigners had been pressing Obama to cut methane from existing oil and gas wells – not just future projects, warning the US had no chance of hitting its Paris targets without such measures.Gina McCarthy, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, agreed, telling a White House conference call with reporters: “We are going to have to tackle emissions from existing sources.”The campaign group Earthworks, which has used infrared imaging to map methane leaks, said the new methane initiative was a significant step-up in Obama’s efforts to cap emissions from oil and gas wells. “With today’s announcement, President Obama starts to get serious,” the organisation said in a statement.But it was on the global arena, where Obama played a critical role in nudging countries towards the Paris agreement, where the renewed US-Canadian partnership on climate change could have the most impact.“On the big looming issues on the horizon, it is vital for us to work together because the more aligned we are, the more we can shape the international agenda to meet these challenges,” Obama said. “Climate change is such an example.”He suggested that having Trudeau on side with the two leaders’ shared liberal values would help drive solutions to help poor countries deal with climate change. “If we don’t agree, if we’re not aggressive, if we’re not far-sighted, if we don’t pool our resources around the research and development and clean energy agenda that’s required to solve this problem, then other countries won’t step up and it won’t get solved,” Obama said. “That’s a really important effort.” The two leaders also pledged to secure a deal cutting emissions from commercial air planes through the International Civil Aviation Organisation, which is based in Montreal. They committed to raise fuel economy standards for delivery trucks and buses, and to work to get more solar and wind power on the US and Canadian electrical grids.On the Arctic, the two leaders pledged to take “science-based standards” into account for any future oil and gas drilling. Noting the rapid disappearance of the sea ice cover, the US and Canada also committed to reduce the use of heavy fuel oil, set up low-impact shipping lanes, and work for sustainable commercial fishing. Obama and Trudeau will have another chance to work on Arctic protections at a White House summit in the autumn and, as officials made clear in a conference call, he has no intention of reining back on climate activism any time soon. The president will seek out climate partnerships with other countries in the remaining months, John Morton, an adviser, told reporters. “I can tell you we are working actively on ensuring that in final year of the administration we see continued progress bilaterally and multilaterally,” he told a conference call.</content>
<class_name>Climate change,Barack Obama,Justin Trudeau,Canada,Americas,Greenhouse gas emissions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-11T12:00:29+0000</date>
<title>Joint low-carbon declaration sees climate baton pass from Obama to Trudeau</title>
<content>In January 2016, , an ecologist at The University of Hong Kong’s  received an unusual package: a frozen, lumpy mass of unknown fish seized at Hong Kong airport. His job was to carry out DNA analysis on the samples to find out what they were. But in solving the mystery, he also uncovered a : the fish were European Eel, a species that should never have reached Hong Kong, because trading these animals between Europe and Asia is completely illegal.“There have been four other confiscated shipments since January this year”, says Baker, whose analysis, done in collaboration with , a fish ecologist from the University of Potsdam in Germany, has helped government authorities to intercept the smuggled eel at the Hong Kong International Airport. Otherwise, the fish may have gone unidentified. “The difficulty for our government agents, these eels when they’re in this stage, they’re not distinctive enough to be identified at the species level,” says Baker, so DNA analysis is the only way to prove their origin. Smugglers typically transport the small, transparent baby fish—called glass eels—by cramming hundreds into water-filled plastic bags that are then packed into personal baggage, and carried live from Europe into China (the samples Baker tested had been frozen by authorities). If a smuggler successfully gets through customs, the eels are taken to aquaculture farms to grow and be sold as adults. Smugglers who are caught, however, face severe punishments. “The maximum penalty for violation [of the eel regulations that prohibit trade] is a fine of $500,000 and imprisonment for one year,” says a spokesperson from Hong Kong’s Agriculture, Conservation and Fisheries Department (AFCD).Yet, taking this risk can also reap a substantial reward. At the glass eel stage the species fetches about  per kilogram on arrival in Asia. And when the fish are sold as larger adults, traders can make a profit of several thousand euros on each kilogram of glass eels originally purchased.It wasn’t always this way, as I explained in my : once, European Eel were freely traded and consumed between Europe and Asia, until in 2010 the international trade was outlawed, due to the eels’ . However, trade was allowed to go on legally within the European Union, and today eel continue to be fished from hotspots like France and Spain and sold to other European nations.According to , a French organisation that provides official data about the agricultural and fisheries sectors, on average the EU market purchases an estimated 15 to 20 tons of the fish for consumption, which are sold on to aquaculture plants to be farmed as food. Another 12 to 15 tons are typically bought for restocking; these are fish that are supposed to be placed back into waterways across Europe as part of a scheme to replenish local populations of this  fish.And yet, up to  of glass eel have been illegally leaving the EU annually since the 2010 ban on international trade began, transported along a complex and mysterious underground network through Europe to Asia. In recent years, “more eels are leaving Europe illegally than are being consumed legally,” says Andrew Kerr, chairman of the  (SEG), an organisation made up of scientists, conservationists and fishing industry representatives working together to aid the recovery of the European Eel across its range. “All those eels that are being caught and illegally traded should really be used for restocking, and moved all over Europe.”Since 2010, many arrests and eel seizures across Europe have revealed a piecemeal picture of the , and it’s become clear that criminals are operating at a regional scale: the trade involves countries including France, Spain, Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Portugal, and the United Kingdom, which variously act as source or transit countries. The scale of this problem has grabbed the attention of the European Commission, which in February published its , a document that underlines the importance of intensifying enforcement to reduce illegal wildlife trade into and out of the EU. More than anything else, the EU is typically recognised as a transit region for trafficked goods—but the new report highlights an important exception: the huge quantities of smuggled European Eel that  from the region.“There are large volumes of eels that are smuggled out of Europe, that’s one of the biggest problems for us in the EU,” Commission sources told me. The report details several arrests, including the 2011-2012 Spanish case of smugglers who were caught trying to carry 1,500 kilograms of glass eels to Asia—a quantity that would have been worth EUR 1.6 million in China. That seizure led to the arrests of 14 people. Far from being opportunistic, the trade appears to be run by organised criminals, the Commission sources added.“Even if you have a seizure within the EU, it’s difficult to find out who’s behind it,” says Werner Gowitzke, seconded national expert on environmental crime at , the EU’s official law enforcement agency, which is lending its support to the investigation, and will be working with law enforcement in various countries to uncover the perpetrators of this expansive illegal trade. To begin to untangle its web, we have to return to France where most of Europe’s eel come from, and which makes it the jumping off point for illegal trade. Europe’s main eel fisheries lie in Spain and France, but “the only country that has the capacity to catch tens of tons is France,” says Kerr, since it receives the bulk of glass eels migrating into its rivers—three quarters of the European total. Annually, the country imposes a catch quota on its fishermen, split by region, which limits the amount of eels that can be caught. This year, it’s set at just over , and already the catch has reached over 41 this fishing season, which will continue running into May.That amount, though legal, worries the SEG because the number exceeds the total FranceAgriMer estimate for European consumption. (I explored this conundrum, and its potential role in driving the illegal trade, in the previous post.) In other words, says Kerr, “the quota is not set in relation to a market.” To cast further suspicion over these numbers, there are recent reports (obtained over email) from buyers in some European countries that not enough eel are available for restocking efforts, despite the ample 21 tons of the 41 total caught that the French fishery has set aside precisely for that purpose—an amount that also happens to exceed Europe’s estimated market demand for restocking.This raises the possibility that a sizeable chunk of the legal catch is being diverted from the European legal market this year into the illegal trade, and ultimately Asia, says Kerr. SEG is carrying out an independent survey of the trade (yet to be published), which estimates that this figure is in excess of 20 tons. All this begs an answer to the question: who is responsible for the illicit business? Riverside poaching and opportunistic criminals are unlikely to account for the tens of tons that routinely find their way to Asia each year—a feat that would require impressive levels of coordination and considerable resources to transport live eels, Kerr points out. “To shift 20 tons can’t be done in a piecemeal way.” Certain French authorities seem to share his thinking. Poachers are typically responsible for the illicit trade of small quantities, says Eric Sabot, from the National Office of Water and Aquatic Environments, the French river police. But, he says, “bigger volumes of some hundred kilograms, representing strong sums—here it is about organised traffic.”Clearly, the scale and intensity of the trade stretches beyond the realm of fishermen into the world of organised criminals. But who exactly is co-ordinating it, and which countries are complicit, are both questions without official answers.Where the trail goes murky in France is at the point of sale. What’s known is that after French fishermen catch the eel, they’re sold on to eel collectors, and then to wholesalers who store the live eel in tanks packed into vast eel holding stations. From here, the fish are traded. But who exactly these millions of squirming glass eels go to is widely unknown.According to sources in the French administration (who asked not to be named) although information about buyers is recorded and tracked, it doesn’t reach the public domain because it contains private trade information: “Generally it’s not public data…basically, it’s commercial private data.” From Kerr’s perspective, this is a red flag. France is a signatory to a  for the recovery of eels that legally binds countries to ensure the full traceability of all eel being exported from their territory. But Kerr’s concern is that keeping the information private might be used as a veil to obscure the onward path of the fish. Official requests for data have frequently been rebuffed, according to Kerr—as was the case for the ICES , a scientific review body that tried, unsuccessfully, to obtain trade data that would have helped them piece together information about the eel supply chain. “Perhaps the logic of protecting ‘trade information’ from competition would be sound and reasonable if there was no doubt that the produce was clean and there was no or little subsequent likelihood of the trade being sold on illegally,” Kerr says.Indeed, once out of France, the eel appear to rapidly enter the illegal network. Spain is emerging as a key player: several of the   in Hong Kong have involved people travelling to Asia from Spain, and some of the biggest eel seizures  as well. French authorities, for their part, aren’t blind to France’s role as a provider: “We know that France is one of the countries that is very much involved because of the number of glass eels coming into our country,” says Marie-Claire Lhenry, an environmental advisor for a branch of the National Gendarmerie, France’s military police service that is also investigating the trade. “That’s why we can’t ignore it.”For Kerr, the pivotal question remains precisely who the eel are being sold to. By his reasoning, if France wants to ensure the complete transparency of its eel trade, it will have to make sure it can answer that question. “If we find the regulation is not being implemented, we will challenge that inertia and non-compliance,” Kerr says. Tell the average person about the illicit eel trade, and the response is often “but why ?” The assumption is that this seemingly bland, familiar fish can’t possibly warrant such desire and demand that it sparks a blackmarket trade. But the reality for the humble eel is one that demonstrates, perhaps, that no earthly resource is safe: if it becomes a desirable commodity, for whatever complex mix of factors, it can be rapidly swept up into a voracious and unflinching trade.Luckily for European eel, however uncharismatic it might appear to the rest of the world, it’s gathered a loyal team of defenders. In Hong Kong, Baker and Stein’s DNA analysis work will continue to expose incoming criminals. In France, fishermen, whose economic interests are ultimately damaged by the trade, are calling for better traceability of eel and many are turning to sustainable fishing to preserve their craft. Some, like a  in France’s Arzal region, are already qualifying for SEG’s , which is like the eel equivalent of a Marine Stewardship Council certification, designed to recognise forward-thinking fisheries that promote eel conservation. And in the background, the Sustainable Eel Group is trying to uncover just how much of the legally caught eel actually reaches European markets. By default, that should reveal a solid estimate on how much of the annual legal catch is being illegally diverted to Asia instead. No doubt, when it’s published in coming months, that figure will spark a fresh wave of debate. Until then, speaking on behalf of the many scientists, conservationists, and industry professionals working to solve this seemingly intractable problem, Kerr assures, “We will not be silent.”</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:21:30+0100</date>
<title>Illegal eel: who is pilfering Europe's catch?</title>
<content>If you want to feel fat, old and totally out of shape, I thoroughly recommend joining the world’s number one women’s cycling team for a bike ride up a big hill.I’d been invited to join  in Mallorca as they prepared for the 2016 season with a winter training camp. My preparation for riding with the best female cyclists on the planet had largely involved eating bacon butties all winter and ending every other ride in the pub. Lean, I was not.The riders, including Olympic gold medallist Dani King, were under strict instructions not to go full gas so that they could fool us gullible journalists into thinking we could keep up with them. But as we approached , a 4.8 mile climb up into the Serra de Tramuntana range, I was struggling so much that Wiggle’s race director, , ordered me to hold onto the team car with my left hand and hitch a lift. “I wouldn’t have done that in a race,” he told me later, very seriously, “unless you’d had a crash or a mechanical.” It’s harder than it looks, cheating: I hadn’t really accounted for the fact that I would have to keep pedalling, and I was in a stupidly low gear.A few kilometres on and I’d been dropped so profoundly that Egon signalled for me to stop, got the mechanic to chuck my bike on the roof and I was bussed a few kilometres up the road through the orange groves to meet the team while they stopped for what’s sanitised in cycling as a “natural break”. I got out of the car shame-faced and Leicester’s , two time , said kindly I mustn’t worry about it, it happens to them all. I later felt worse after uploading the ride to Strava and realised my little motorised interlude had resulted in me stealing the Queen of the Mountains (QOM) top prize on a certain uphill segment after averaging an unbelievable 26mph. (Sorry, Karen Popperwell: you are the real queen).Having to take a leak in bib shorts is a great leveller. You may have won an Olympic medal like King, or the world road championships, like her team mate , but you still have to suffer the indignity of getting half naked by the roadside just to have a wazz.First the jersey has to come off, then the braces of the shorts and finally it’s bum to the breeze (no knickers: they chafe). Unless you go down the  route, outlined in Suze Clemitson’s excellent book about women’s cycling, . De Vries, a Dutch journalist who turned professional at the age of 30 following a TV experiment called Can You Still Be A Top Athlete In Your Thirties, advocates as follows: pulling one leg of your shorts up as near to your crotch as possible using both hands inside your shorts, one at the front and one at the back, crouch and pee. Everyone else buggered off and left me after the first two hairpins, so I soloed to the top in a rubbish 35 minutes. It took King just over 21 minutes to zip up the hill, and she later insisted she was only trying for 20 of those. She cursed herself back at the team hotel in Playa del Muro afterwards when she uploaded the ride to Strava and saw she was 11 seconds off taking the QOM title from her former British  team mate, Joanna Rowsell Shand. “If I’d known how close I was I’d have smashed it,” she said.Despite inducing feelings of immense inadequacy, there are great perks to hanging out with a bunch of pros, as I found out when I had the world’s most underwhelming and lame crash right outside the hotel on day one when I had failed to screw my pedals on properly. I was going, oh, at least ten miles per hour when the left one came off and I keeled over, the left hand side of my body scraping down the Mallorcan tarmac. The nice Wiggle PR lady was concerned about my injuries but delighted I had ruined my brand new Rapha top: it meant I would be forced to wear DHB, Wiggle’s in-house brand, in all the photos.She sent me to see Christoph, the team “soigneur” — a jack of all trades who is part medic, part masseuse, part kit-man. I was summoned to his room, where he applied something he called “oxygen water” to my road rash. Despite its soothing name, oxygen water appears to be hydrogen peroxide and stung my wounds like billy-oh. “Sorry, but it has to be done,” said Christoph with no hint of remorse, as he scrubbed at what he thought was dirt on my bloody elbow. After a while he concluded it was actually burnt skin: lovely! Then he applied a thick layer of Arnica gel, a herbal remedy, to my badly swollen elbow, with purple bruises just peeping through.At dinner I wore a short sleeved dress in a pathetic attempt to elicit sympathy from the riders. Annette “Nettie” Edmondson, a chatty Aussie who was 2015 world champion on the track, seemed impressed, and ordered me to ice my elbow and then wrap it in compression bandages. I was amazed she made it to Mallorca at all, having  on a training ride in Australia just the previous week. She showed me her bruises: they were somewhat more spectacular than mine. She posted a picture of what her body had done to the car when she hit it at speed: it’s amazing she got away so unscathed.Two days of playing catch-up with the Wiggle girls and my bits were in bits. Wiggle had lent me a bike with a men’s saddle and it had not been kind to my undercarriage: it hurt to pee on the second day. Should I have worn chamois cream, I wondered out loud to über-Aussie Rochelle Gilmore, Wiggle’s team manager and former Commonwealth Games gold medallist, at the evening buffet? “I never bother myself,” she said. “Never have. I wouldn’t even know where to put it.” Dani King was the same. Most of the riders said they only occasionally used it. “I only tend to put it on when I’m doing a multi-day race and am already sore,” said Emma Johannsen, the 12-time Swedish national champion, who on our second day of riding went back down the mountain to check I hadn’t fallen off, after they were waiting so long for me at the summit.A yoga session by the pool, led by two time , made me feel slightly less of a useless lump. It turns out that some world class cyclists can’t touch their toes either (Lucy Garner), or reach one foot from behind when lying on their front (s). Afterwards, Abbott, who despite her incredible palmares has to work in the off season at a farmers’ market as well as a yoga instructor, told off  from the Isle of Man for texting during the sun salutations.It was refreshing to see how normal the girls are: I was delighted to see Bronzini sip a glass of red wine with her dinner later that evening. For a brief moment I thought she was just like me and ordered another glass for myself. Alcohol-induced delusion is a powerful thing.</content>
<class_name>Cycling
(Life and style),Cycling
(Sport),Fitness,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:54:51+0100</date>
<title>Getting dropped by Dani King</title>
<content>The UK’s Channel 4 broadcast a documentary on 23 February titled First Contact: Lost Tribe of the Amazon. It focused on a group of 35 “uncontacted” indigenous people, the “Tsapanawas” or “Sapanahuas”, who were filmed in June 2014 turning up at a village in Brazil’s Amazon near the border with .The Tsapanawas’ arrival at the village, Simpatía, attracted mass media coverage and Youtube interest. The documentary follows José Carlos Meirelles, a “” who worked for the Brazilian government’s National Indian Institute (FUNAI) for 40 years and was in Simpatía when contact was made, returning to the Tsapanawas nine months later. It also focuses on other “uncontacted” people, two groups of “Mashco-Piro”, as they are widely-known, in south-east Peru.First Contact was directed by Angus MacQueen, who also wrote an article about the film in , and narrated by actor Robert Lindsay. No doubt about it, it was excellent that Channel 4 was able to broadcast it and draw attention to the Tsapanawas and Mashco-Piros - just two of more than possibly 100 indigenous groups or peoples in Brazil and Peru living in what the law in both countries calls “isolation” and who are among the most vulnerable indigenous peoples in the world. There was some fascinating footage of one Tsapanawa man hunting and other Tsapanawas in their village - and some comic moments too. Their verdict on Meirelles’ and others’ singing during the now notorious Simpatía encounter? According to the documentary’s translation: “What shit singing.” “Listen to them. They can’t sing.” “Yes, they’re shit. . .”Nevertheless, the documentary omitted some crucial information, used some extremely misleading language, and made numerous factual errors. Here are eight things worth highlighting: The documentary states the Mashco-Piros have been “invading” a “town” – actually an indigenous community – called Monte Salvado. In recent years such incursions have been reported by the mainstream media, including the Guardian, BBC and AFP, but they’ve all got it backwards. If anyone can be said to have “invaded” anyone, it’s the people living in Monte Salvado, indigenous Yines, who have “invaded” the Mashco-Piros.The Yines arrived from the River Urubamba, in a different watershed, and settled at what is today Monte Salvado on the River Las Piedras in the early-to-mid 1990s. That was way, way, way upriver from any other indigenous community, right in territory that had long been regarded as the Mashco-Piros’, and within the area that was subsequently proposed for the supposedly off-limits Madre de Dios Reserve for them and other indigenous peoples in isolation. The Yines repeatedly attempted to contact the Mashco-Piros, travelling deeper into their territory to leave them pots, pans, machetes and knives, among other things. They also repeatedly entered deeper into Mashco-Piro territory to log valuable tree species, and in the 2000s, during a mahogany and cedar boom, charged other loggers to do the same. This boom involved frequent violence between the Mashco-Piros and loggers - with deaths on both sides. Why did the Yines move? Escaping Peru’s civil war was one reason, as was the prospect of access to otherwise inaccessible timber in the surrounding forest, but why right there, right then, and why so fervently try to contact the Mashco-Piros? A fundamental part of the answer: Christian evangelism. The Yines were Protestant “”, as they’re called in Peru, and looking for converts. Might they have been supported by US missionary organisations such as the Summer Institute of Linguistics, which for decades has specialised in contacting “isolated” indigenous peoples in the Amazon and was reported to have flown over the River Las Piedras in the early 1990s, or Pioneers Mission, which, elsewhere in south-east Peru in the 1990s, established a village and moved Yines there to contact Mashco-Piros?Big Gas may have played a role too. The Yines moved to Monte Salvado around the same time Mobil turned up in Madre de Dios, before signing a contract, in 1996, to explore 1.5 million hectares which included the Las Piedras basin. Mobil established a base just upriver from Monte Salvado, even deeper in Mashco-Piro territory, and employed some Yines. Were the latter moved there to effectively “pacify” the Mashco-Piros and facilitate operations - with missionaries playing an intermediary role? That is what has happened time and time again across the Amazon. The documentary makes some attempt to explain why the Tsapanawas turned up at Simpatía and why the Mashco-Piros are making “various forms of contact”, but it almost entirely fails to convey just how seriously Peru’s government is failing to protect the territories of indigenous peoples in isolation in south-east Peru and how consistently such territories have been invaded in recent decades. Two Tsapanawa men describe being attacked and seeing their relatives murdered, and there is passing mention of loggers, narco-traffickers and coca farmers by Meirelles and narrator Lindsay, but that’s it. What could, or should, have been made clear is that the supposedly off-limits Murunahua Reserve in Peru, used by the Tsapanawas and rightly mentioned by Meirelles, has never been properly protected and has been the scene of rampant illegal logging - facilitated by extreme violence and corruption - for years and years. What could, or should, have also been made clear is that both the Alto Purus National Park, also used by the Tsapanawas and again mentioned by Meirelles, and the Mashco-Piro Reserve have been regularly invaded by illegal loggers as well, and that the government has established numerous “legal” logging concessions in Mashco-Piro territory in areas that were proposed as part of the Madre de Dios Reserve but were excluded when the reserve was established.And drugs? Peru competes with Colombia as the world’s top coca producer and one, apparently minor, way cocaine and/or cocaine paste is exported is through Peru’s south-east Amazon to  and beyond. This can mean crossing Tsapanawa and Mashco-Piro territory: the River Envira, where Simpatía is located, is acknowledged to be a route. In early 2011, at its base on the River Envira upriver from Simpatía, FUNAI detained a Portuguese man, Joaquím Antonio Custodio Fadista, who had crossed the border from Peru and was wanted for narco-trafficking by both INTERPOL and Peruvian police, according to an April 2014 report by the base. That same report alleged that Custodio’s detention led to rumours that the base would be attacked by “a group of 50 armed men coming from Peru” looking for him, which, together with the subsequent confirmation of a small armed group near the base in July, led to its evacuation. Indeed, the attack, or possibly  described by the Tsapanawas in the documentary was, or were, almost certainly perpetrated by narco-traffickers, although it is interesting that one Tsapanawa man is translated as saying their attackers “talked by radio” and were “Peruvian army.”Other key reasons for the invasion - direct or indirect - of territories inhabited by indigenous peoples in isolation in south-east Peru aren’t mentioned at all by the documentary: oil and gas companies (Shell, Mobil, Repsol, Hunt Oil, Pluspetrol, a China National Petroleum Corporation subsidiary. . .), Catholic priests, Protestant , gold-miners, colonists, hunters, fishermen, control posts, or the recently-completed leg of the pan-South American continental highway. Instead, increasing contact is blithely attributed to “a kind of teenage rebellion” in the case of the Mashco-Piro and “other tribes” - although it isn’t stated who “other tribes” is supposed to refer to.One consequence of these invasions appears to be what FUNAI’s Envira base’s April 2014 report called an “intense process of forced migration of isolated Indian groups” from Peru to Brazil over the last 10 years. The Tsapanawas, who appear to have moved back and forth across the border anyway, are one such group. “In 2007 we noticed that they were moving to Brazilian territory,” Meirelles told the Guardian. “That was when they began to fire arrows at us more frequently.” The documentary highlights the support provided to the Tsapanawas by FUNAI - mistakenly described as Brazil’s “federation for indigenous peoples”, when really it is a government institute within the Justice Ministry - but fails to acknowledge FUNAI’s serious bungles  and immediately after the now notorious Simpatía encounter which put the Tsapanawas and other peoples’ lives gravely at risk. FUNAI had been warned months in advance that contact was likely but failed to send in time 1) an interpreter who could communicate with the Tsapanawas; 2) a specialist doctor to provide appropriate medical attention because of their lack of immunological defences and extreme vulnerability to colds and flu; 3) essential equipment, such as a freezer to store vaccines; 4) emergency food for the Tsapanawas; and 5) experienced FUNAI staff. The consequences? One was the misunderstandings captured so well in the Simpatía encounter footage. The documentary correctly recognises that this situation was “fraught with risk”, but doesn’t acknowledge how easily that risk could have been reduced if FUNAI had reacted differently and ensured someone was there who could understand what the Tsapanawas were saying and talk back to them.Part of the problem was FUNAI’s evacuation of its Envira base three years before. “It had everything a base could have,” Meirelles, who left FUNAI in 2010 and was in Simpatía because he had been invited by the Envira base’s team, told the Guardian. “Contact was expected, but the base had been abandoned. Everything was done in a hurry. I had to buy a freezer to store vaccines. When contact happened there weren’t any interpreters. That was why there was all that madness. The Asháninkas [living in Simpatía] were drunk. Yet more madness. Another issue is that the FUNAI personnel had no experience for a contact. They were newly-hired.”The Tsapanawas were eventually - and heroically - treated by Dr Douglas Rodrigues, a specialist in indigenous peoples’ health from the Federal University of São Paulo. But Rodrigues wasn’t formally invited to Simpatía by Brazil’s Health Ministry until 16 June and didn’t arrive until 6 July - three weeks after a report by FUNAI’s Envira team, now based in a city called Rio Branco many miles away, requesting a health team as quickly as possible and warning, in bolded capitals, “Contact is imminent.” What Rodrigues found, upriver from Simpatía, together with a FUNAI team which this time included two Jaminawa interpreters, was a group of seven Tsapanawas, all ill, with one, named “Sirimaku”, suffering from acute respiratory infection, a cough, body aches and fever. “I treated them successfully,” Rodrigues told the Guardian. “We were lucky because the respiratory infection that the group had caught wasn’t influenza, but another virus - less aggressive. Moreover, the translators could communicate well with the group, which is essential.”All this is to say nothing of how FUNAI immediately responded to the Simpatía encounter, and the irresponsibility in allowing the film footage to be disseminated like it was. “It was broadcast as if they had seen a flying saucer,” Beatriz Huertas Castillo, a Peruvian anthropologist and the leading expert on indigenous peoples in isolation in Peru, told the Guardian. “It wasn’t handled with the necessary care. As a result, within a very short space of time, there were a lot of people wanting to go in search of the Tsapanawas to interview them. Various journalists made it to Simpatía. . . When the first video of the contact was seen, the feeling in Rio Branco was “the state functionaries did exactly what they  have done.””  The documentary calls the Tsapanawas, Mashco-Piros and/or other indigenous peoples in isolation “uncontacted”, “lost”, “hidden”, “untouched by modern civilisation”, “untouched, indeed uncorrupted by our modern world”, “the tribes that time forgot”, “people who show us what we once were”, and living - or previously living - in “total isolation” and “complete isolation.” It even calls the Mashco-Piros “warriors”, features a shot of a YouTube clip about the Tsapanawas titled “Amazon Tribe Makes Touching Contact with Outside World FIRST TIME”, and describes the Simpatía encounter as “the moment these isolated men and women first seek to join the outside world.”All that is nonsense, some of it hopelessly romantic, some arguably offensive. To take the most obvious, glaring example: calling the Tsapanawas  “uncontacted” massively distorts the reality of their lives and the history of the western Amazon.“Without contact with what?” asks Meirelles, when queried by the Guardian about the term. “All the peoples described as “isolated” have had some kind of contact with us. Usually violent. What they don’t have is regular contact. But they’ve been using axes, machetes and iron pots for at least 100 years.”True, the documentary sort of u-turns halfway through and acknowledges the Tsapanawas  had some prior contact, quoting one of the men describing a “time of conflict” when “there were massacres “ and “the tribe broke up”, but no such recognition is accorded the Mashco-Piros, whose territories appear to have been savagely invaded over 100 years ago to meet mainly US and western European demand for rubber. Nor is it acknowledged that people who are almost certainly relatives of the Tsapanawas - “Mastanahuas” and Chitonahuas or “Murunahuas” - established sustained contact back in the mid-1990s and early 2000s and have been settled along other rivers in south-east Peru for years. The documentary claims that the Tsapanawas and Mashco-Piros live inside a “reserve” “for isolated peoples the size of Ireland” which “straddles the border between Brazil and Peru”, and which stretches for over “30,000 square miles [and] is home to the majority of the last uncontacted people on the planet. Entry from outside is prohibited.” No such “reserve” exists. Might the documentary-makers have been confused by the recent that Peru and Brazil establish an 8.9m hectare “territorial corridor” for indigenous peoples in isolation in south-east Peru and western Brazil, whose geography roughly corresponds to the map of the “reserve” shown in the documentary?What  exist in this region - across an area slightly larger than that shown by the documentary’s map - is a mosaic of different kinds of land-use areas, with different laws and regulations, including national parks, reserves for indigenous peoples in isolation, “indigenous lands”, “native communities” and one “communal reserve”, with many other people living there. Only in the reserves for indigenous peoples in isolation - which are very large, it is true - can entry be really called “prohibited”, and that prohibition is regularly violated. As for the documentary’s assertion that this “reserve” is home to “the majority of the last uncontacted people on earth”, that simply isn’t true. The documentary claims that “now something astonishing is happening: some of these hidden tribes are emerging from the forests and terrorising local communities.” That - to say nothing of the dubious choice of words such as “some”, “hidden”, “astonishing”, “emerging from. . .” - is a tremendous overstatement. The conduct of the Tsapanawas and Mashco-Piro groups featured in the documentary is very different to that of the majority of indigenous peoples in isolation in Peru. The Mashco-Piro man, woman and boy who are filmed on the beach and appear towards the end are part of just one fragment of a sub-group among the Mashco-Piro, who in turn are just one larger group or people among approximately 20 groups or peoples in isolation in Peru. The Tsapanawas are another of the approximate 20. The documentary claims towards the end that “the reality of [the Tsapanawas’] existence ends our romantic dreams of noble savages still living in the Garden of Eden.” Er,  “romantic dreams” exactly? Is that really how the documentary-makers assume its audience is thinking? If that is the case, it is particularly ironic because, if anyone can be said to be “romanticising” the Tsapanawas and other indigenous peoples in isolation, it is the documentary. Hence terms like “uncontacted”, “untouched’ and “uncorrupted.” One final point: would it not have been much safer and fairer if the documentary-makers had waited considerably longer before meeting the Tsapanawas, given their extreme vulnerability to infections, which could last for years, if not decades, despite being vaccinated? And would it not have been much safer and fairer to have forgone landing on the beach where they peered at Mashco-Piro footprints, or, during the subsequent encounter between the Yine interpreter, Rommel, a doctor from Peru’s Culture Ministry and a Mashco-Piro man, woman and boy, to have foregone giving Rommel a camera to film it? To what extent might their example encourage others to do the same - with God-knows-what potential consequences?Those three Mashco-Piros and the rest of their group are arguably even more vulnerable to infections than the Tsapanawas and the situation is already dangerous, tense and complex enough as it is - without anyone effectively provoking contact and/or waving cameras around, either right in the Mashco-Piros’ faces or from the other side of the river. Such encounters are too serious for TV viewers’ entertainment or possible edification. </content>
<class_name>Indigenous peoples,Brazil,Peru,Television,Amazon rainforest,Trees and forests,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T16:56:53+0100</date>
<title>8 things to know about Channel 4's Lost Tribe of the Amazon</title>
<content>Big  must thwart the movement to leave fossil fuels in the ground, the world’s most powerful oilman said on Tuesday.Addressing executives in Texas, Saudi oil minister Ali Al-Naimi said the industry had to shed its “Dark Side” image and show it was a “force for good”.“As an industry, we should be celebrating that fact, and better explaining the vital importance of these precious natural resources,” he said, according to a  from an event in Houston.“We should not be apologising. And we must not ignore the misguided campaign to ‘keep it in the ground’ and hope it will go away. For too long the oil industry has been portrayed as the Dark Side, but it is not. It is a force, yes, but a force for good.”The growing divestment campaign bids to blacklist the industry as others shunned tobacco producers or Apartheid-era South Africa.By last December,  including large insurers, funds and banks managing US$3.4tn of assets pledged to move out of fossil fuels for climate reasons. That’s a 70-fold rise on September 2014. were not the problem, but their “harmful emissions,” said Al-Naimi, who represents the hydrocarbon-rich Middle Eastern kingdom at UN climate talks and stepped down as chairman of national oil company Aramco in 2015.The world must scale up technologies that capture carbon dioxide, instead of replacing the polluting fuels with renewable sources, he added.The US now leads  as the world’s top oil producer following a revolution in techniques to extract it from shale rock, according to BP data.Al-Naimi denied his country had declared war on US producers following oil cartel Opec’s decision not to limit production. Crude prices have plummeted more than 70% since June 2014, bankrupting shale drillers. “We must continue to work together and we must stick together if we want to achieve our common goal of supplying energy for the betterment of the world and humankind,” he said.</content>
<class_name>Fossil fuel divestment,Oil,Fossil fuels,Energy,Saudi Arabia,Middle East and North Africa,Climate change,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-25T10:00:24+0000</date>
<title>Oil industry must thwart 'misguided' divestment campaign, says Saudi minister</title>
<content>ess than 2C of global warming for the Earth, the target agreed by leaders at the COP21 climate conference in Paris last November, doesn’t really sound too ambitious. In fact, many of us would welcome an extra couple of degrees warmth. So what is all the fuss about?Unfortunately the warming would not occur evenly around the world. A study published recently in  shows what 2C of warming – a rise, of this level, above the pre-industrial global mean surface temperature – might really feel like and which regions may be hit hardest.Some of the regional hot spots cited are the Mediterranean countries, Brazil and the US, where 2C of global warming could translate into local temperature increases of more than 3C. But the region expected to suffer most is the , where night-time temperatures are predicted to soar by 6C.“Some countries are much more exposed than others,” says Rob Wilby, from .The Earth has already warmed by an average of 1C, and the uneven nature of this warming is becoming clear with  regions already beyond the 2C mark. Meanwhile, climate models suggest that the Mediterranean could pass the 2C level once global temperatures have risen by 1.4C.Oceans, which cover 70% of the planet, warm much more slowly than land and are partly responsible for the uneven pattern of warming. Local factors, like loss of heat-reflecting snow in the , make a difference, too.And it isn’t just temperature: changes in rainfall are also expected to be unequally distributed, with most land areas getting more of a dousing, according to the researchers. “Recent flooding episodes  give us an insight into just how vulnerable we are,” says Wilby.</content>
<class_name>Climate change
(Science),Arctic,Climate change
(Environment),Global climate talks,Meteorology,Fossil fuel divestment,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-10T21:30:00+0000</date>
<title>Global warming: uneven changes across planet</title>
<content>Local authorities have been warned that they will face “severe penalties” if they divest from fossil fuel holdings or boycott oil, coal or gas firms in procurement tenders, the UK government has said. Local councils, government agencies and public sector bodies must adopt environmental and social policies consistent with central government, says the guidance sent out by the Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG).“Councils should not be using pensions and procurement policies to pursue their own boycotts and sanctions,” a government spokesman told the Guardian. “We are reminding councils of the rules to ensure taxpayers’ and the UK’s interests are protected.”But the measure has been condemned as an “attack on local democracy” by a spokesman for Jeremy Corbyn, while lawyers told the Guardian that it could be open to legal challenge. The first target of the new guidance, which was published yesterday, , which has targeted companies and assets connected with the Israeli government.The guidance also instructs local government pension funds that government policy should always be followed where “non-financial factors” such as the environment, social issues or corporate governance are concerned.But fossil fuel investments  a “stranded asset” risk by the governor of the Bank of England, and the shadow climate change minister, Barry Gardiner, praised local councils that had divested for showing leadership. “It is simply not prudent for the government to insist that councils ignore the financial risks of fossil fuel investments,” he told the Guardian. “Nearly $1bn has been wiped off the value of coal investments by UK public pension funds in the last two years, and institutions across the world representing over $3tn in assets have have committed to divest from fossil fuels.“It is utterly unacceptable for the government to seek to override councils’ responsible investment decisions in this way.”Last December, David Cameron joined world leaders in agreeing a climate deal in Paris that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero later this century. But the government sees  as a key part of its low-carbon energy strategy.  Officials say they are duty bound to act against councils because the World Trade Organisation government procurement agreement ensures that all members treat suppliers equally. But major cities from signatory countries, such as Oslo and Copenhagen and have begun divestment moves without rebuke. The legal NGO ClientEarth, which successfully challenged the government over its response to air pollution, said that local authorities which protected their pension fundholders from climate risks were making a far-sighted investment decision, rather than taking a political stance. “As global efforts to mitigate climate change gear up, fossil fuel investments are likely to lose value, potentially diminishing the retirement pots of ordinary pension-holders,” James Thornton, ClientEarth’s CEO, told the Guardian. “The law makes it very clear,” he said. “Measuring and managing financial risk is a legal obligation. This can be achieved by limiting exposure to financially risky fossil fuel investments.”The new guidance was also condemned by several local authorities. Peter Marland, the leader of Milton Keynes council described it as an undemocratic attack on the renewable energy sector. “If local councillors wish to choose other investments, such as green energy that are in the longer term interest of society, then they should be free to do so,” he told the Guardian. Joe Anderson, the mayor of Liverpool, argued that with , action on climate change at the local level was vital.  “Preventing local authorities from divesting from fossil fuels would be both outrageous and inconsistent with our climate objectives,” he said. </content>
<class_name>Fossil fuel divestment,Greenhouse gas emissions,Local government,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-18T15:54:33+0000</date>
<title>UK councils warned of 'severe penalties' of fossil fuel divestment</title>
<content>n a vast manmade lake on the outskirts of , work is nearing completion on what will soon be Europe’s largest floating solar power farm – and will briefly be the world’s biggest.But few are likely to see the 23,000 solar panels on the Queen Elizabeth II reservoir at Walton-on-Thames, which is invisible to all but Heathrow passengers and a few flats in neighbouring estates.“This will be the biggest floating solar farm in the world for a time - others are under construction,” said Angus Berry, energy manager for Thames , which owns the site. “We are leading the way, but we hope that others will follow, in the UK and abroad.”Five years in planning and due to be finished in early March, the £6m project will generate enough electricity to power the utility’s local water treatment plants for decades. The energy will help provide clean drinking water to a populace of close to 10 million people in greater London and the south-east of England, a huge and often unrecognised drain on electricity, rather than nearby homes. Why put solar panels on water? The answer, according to Berry, is that the water is there, and might as well be used for this purpose. Floating panels, covering only about 6% of the reservoir, will have no impact on the ecosystem, he says. Though waterbirds, including moorhens and gulls, live on the margins, and a thin scum of litter is visible at the shore, the reservoir is not intended as a home to wildlife, and any fish living here are accidental visitors. Eighteen metres deep, it provides water for Londoners in a constantly churning stream. Although most of the population growth in London tends to be towards the east, most of the water still comes from reservoirs to the west of the city.But future projects to make use of water companies’ reservoirs in order to provide solar power might be in doubt, Berry said. The current government has slashed subsidies for  and . Berry said that this would not affect the QEII project, but might have an effect on whether follow-up projects could go ahead. “We have had to look very closely at the economics of this, at all stages,” he said. “It is not clear what the future economics would be [for other potential projects].”A similar floating solar farm with around half the capacity of the Thames Water project . Construction of an even bigger farm - at 13.7MW more than twice the QEII farm -  and due to finish in 2018.Putting solar panels on the water for the QEII scheme has not required planning permission, though big arrays of similar panels on land require official sanction. The government  to ban farmers who put solar arrays on agricultural land from receiving EU subsidies for the land.More than 23,000 solar panels will be floated by developer Lightsource Renewable  at the reservoir near Walton-on-Thames, representing 6.3MW of capacity, or enough to generate the equivalent electricity consumption of about 1,800 homes.The reservoir was commissioned in 1962, and remains one of the biggest serving London. Thames Water said that plans for a “super-sewer” under London would not affect the solar power project.</content>
<class_name>Solar power,London,Energy,Renewable energy,Water,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-29T11:44:26+0000</date>
<title>World's biggest floating solar farm powers up outside London</title>
<content>Climate scientists have bad news for governments, energy companies, motorists, passengers and citizens everywhere in the world: to contain global warming to the  last December, they will have to  than anybody had predicted.Joeri Rogelj, research scholar at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis in Austria, and European and Canadian colleagues propose in  that all previous estimates of the quantities of carbon dioxide that can be released into the atmosphere before the thermometer rises to potentially catastrophic levels are too generous.Instead of a range of permissible emissions estimates that ranged up to 2,390 bn tons from 2015 onwards, the very most humans could release would be 1,240 bn tons.In effect, that halves the levels of diesel and petrol available for petrol tanks, coal for power stations, and natural gas for central heating and cooking available to humankind before the global average temperature – already 1C higher than it was at the start of the Industrial Revolution – reaches the notional 2C mark long agreed internationally as being the point of no return for the planet.In fact, the  in Paris agreed a target “well below” 2C, in recognition of ominous projections − one of which was that, at such planetary temperatures, sea levels would rise high enough to submerge several small island states.The Nature Climate Change paper is a restatement of a problem that has been clear for decades. Carbon dioxide proportions in the atmosphere are linked to planetary surface temperatures and, as they rise, so does average temperature. For most of human history, these proportions oscillated around 280 parts per million.The global exploitation, on a massive scale, of fossil fuels drove the expansion of agriculture, the growth of economies, a sevenfold growth in human population, a sea level rise of 14cms, and a temperature rise of, so far, 1C.To stop temperatures increasing another 3C or more and sea levels rising by more than a metre, humans have to reduce fossil fuel emissions. By how much these must be reduced is difficult to calculate.The  is really the balance between what animals emit – in this context, the word animals includes humans with cars and aeroplanes and factories – and what plants and algae can absorb. So the calculations are bedevilled by uncertainties about forests, grasslands and oceans.To make things simpler, climate scientists translate the target into the billions of tons of carbon dioxide that, ideally, may be released into the atmosphere from 2015 onwards. Even these, however, are estimates.There is general agreement that a limit of 590 bn tons would safely keep the world from overheating in ways that would impose ever greater strains on human society. The argument is about the upper limit of such estimates.Dr Rogelj says: “In order to have a reasonable chance of keeping global warming below 2C, we can only emit a certain amount of carbon dioxide, ever. That’s our carbon budget.“This has been understood for about a decade, and the physics behind this concept are well understood, but many different factors can lead to carbon budgets that are either slightly smaller or slightly larger. We wanted to understand these differences, and to provide clarity on the issue for policymakers and the public.“This study shows that, in some cases, we have been overestimating the budget by 50 to more than 200%. At the high end, this is a difference of more than 1,000 billion tons of carbon dioxide.”The same study takes a closer look at why estimates of the “safe” level of emissions have varied so widely.One complicating factor has been, of course, uncertainty about what humans might do, and another has been about the other more transient greenhouse gases, such as methane and the oxides of nitrogen.Although short-lived and released in smaller quantities, some of these are potentially far more potent than carbon dioxide as an influence on planetary temperatures.But Dr Rogelj and his colleagues found that a significant cause of variation was simply a consequence of the different assumptions and methodologies inherent in such complex calculations.So the researchers have re-examined both the options and the approaches, and have worked out a global figure that, they suggest, could be relevant to “real-world policy”.It takes into account the consequences of all human activity, and it embraces detailed outlines of possible low-carbon choices. It also offers, they say, a 66% chance of staying within the internationally-agreed limit.“We now better understand the carbon budget for keeping global warming below 2C,” Dr Rogelj says. “This carbon budget is very important to know because it defines how much carbon dioxide we are allowed to release into the atmosphere, ever.“We have figured out that this budget is at the low end of what studies indicated before, and if we don’t start reducing our emissions immediately, we will blow it in a few decades.” </content>
<class_name>Greenhouse gas emissions,Climate change
(Environment),Fossil fuels,Energy,Climate change
(Science),</class_name>
<date>2016-02-25T11:06:05+0000</date>
<title>Fossil fuel use must fall twice as fast as thought to contain global warming - study</title>
<content> hopes to receive one of the first loans issued by the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) later this year, as it looks to raise $500m for solar power projects from the newly created lender, Indian officials said. Funding for clean energy projects would allay fears of environmental lobbyists that the bank’s relaxed lending criteria could promote dirty fuels like coal in developing economies, like India, that are in a hurry to ramp up energy output. The multilateral investment bank, which has authorised capital of $100bn, plans to join global clean-energy initiatives, and could fund eco-friendly investment projects to avoid allegations of promoting pollution.India, the bank’s second biggest shareholder after , is looking to borrow from the AIIB, a senior official said, to back prime minister Narendra Modi’s plan of expanding installed solar capacity to 100 gigawatts by 2022.“In about six months, funds could start flowing from AIIB,” Tarun Kapur, joint secretary at the Ministry of New and Renewable , told Reuters. Interest on the loan is likely to be 2-2.5% and would be linked to Libor - a floating benchmark based on the rate at which commercial banks lend to each other - for a term of over 15 years. The AIIB, which is headquartered in Beijing and was launched in January, did not comment directly on borrowing by India but said it was developing a project pipeline in a number of countries. “It is expected that the first loan decisions will be taken later this year,” it said in written answers to questions submitted by Reuters. India is in talks with the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, Germany’s KfW and the New Development Bank, set up by big emerging economies that form the BRICS bloc, to raise more than $3bn in the financial year that starts on 1 April. India has requested $500m in financing from the ADB to support rooftop solar, and a similar sum to expand transmission networks to connect to solar parks. The ADB signed a cooperation agreement with the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to back the solar power expansion. India estimates it needs to invest up to $100bn in solar power in the next six-seven years to meet its ambitious target of boosting capacity by roughly 17 times from current levels of 5,800 megawatts. “Financing is not an issue but we need cheaper funds,” said Kapur. After hedging costs of about 6-7%, the cost of funding from the AIIB funds works out at just below 10%, compared to domestic rates of about 12%, he said. Another official at the finance ministry who has been liaising with the AIIB, said initial talks had taken place on clean energy projects and more proposals could soon be submitted on other priority areas. The AIIB is expected to lend $10bn-$15bn a year for the first five or six years and could start operations in the second quarter of 2016. AIIB president Jin Liqun said earlier this year that the bank has a good pipeline of co-financing projects and standalone projects.</content>
<class_name>Solar power,India,China,Asia Pacific,Energy,Renewable energy,South and Central Asia,Access to energy,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:05:29+0100</date>
<title>India seeks $500m loan for solar projects</title>
<content>A charitable fund of the Rockefeller family – who are sitting on a multibillion-dollar oil fortune – has said it will withdraw all its investments from fossil fuel companies.The Rockefeller Family Fund, a charity set up in 1967 by descendants of John D Rockefeller, said on Wednesday that it would divest from all fossil fuel holdings “as quickly as possible”. The fund, which was founded by Martha, John, Laurance, Nelson and David Rockefeller, singled out ExxonMobil for particular attention describing the world’s largest oil company as “morally reprehensible”. John D Rockefeller, who was  made his fortune from Standard Oil a precursor of ExxonMobil. “There is no sane rationale for companies to continue to explore for new sources of hydrocarbons,” the RFF, which has relatively small total holdings of $130m (£92m), . “We must keep most of the already discovered reserves in the ground if there is any hope for human and natural ecosystems to survive and thrive in the decades ahead.“We would be remiss if we failed to focus on what we believe to be the morally reprehensible conduct on the part of ExxonMobil. Evidence appears to suggest that the company worked since the 1980s to confuse the public about climate change’s march, while simultaneously spending millions to fortify its own infrastructure against climate change’s destructive consequences and track new exploration opportunities as the Arctic’s ice receded.”An Exxon spokesman told CNBC: “It’s not surprising that they’re divesting from the company since they’re already funding a conspiracy against us.” The RFF denied that it was conspiring against Exxon, and a spokesman said the claim was “a complete mischaracterization of our program work”. The RFF’s accusation of morally reprehensible conduct is in reference to New York state attorney general Eric Schneiderman’s investigation, launched in November, into whether Exxon lied to the public and shareholders about the risks of climate change.The investigation, which has also been taken up by California’a attorney general, follows  that internal company documents from the 1980s and 90s show Exxon’s in-house scientists were warning company executives about the dangers of climate change, while Exxon was publicly claiming that climate science was not proven. At the time, an Exxon spokesman said: “We unequivocally reject the allegations that ExxonMobil has suppressed climate change research.” The RFF acknowledged that the family has made a lot of money from oil, “but history moves on, as it must”. “Needless to say, the Rockefeller family has had a long and profitable history investing in the oil industry, including ExxonMobil,” it said. “These are not decisions, therefore, that have been taken lightly or without much consideration of their import.”RFF is not the first Rockefeller family organisation to vow to divest from fossil fuels. Last year the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF) said it was withdrawing all of the $45m it had invested in fossil fuels. However, the much wealthier Rockefeller Foundation, whose endowment tops $4bn, is understood to be opposed to divestment for now.</content>
<class_name>Fossil fuel divestment,Exxon Mobil,Oil and gas companies,Energy industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T21:39:41+0000</date>
<title>Rockefeller family charity to withdraw all investments in fossil fuel companies</title>
<content>Sea levels could rise far more rapidly than expected in coming decades, according to new research that reveals Antarctica’s vast ice cap is less stable than previously thought.The UN’s climate science body had  this century - but it did not anticipate any significant contribution from Antarctica, where increasing snowfall was expected to keep the ice sheet in balance.According a study, , collapsing Antarctic ice sheets are expected to double sea-level rise to two metres by 2100, if carbon emissions are not cut. Previously, only the passive melting of Antarctic ice by warmer air and seawater was considered but the new work added active processes, such as the disintegration of huge ice cliffs.“This [doubling] could spell disaster for many low-lying cities,” said Prof Robert DeConto, at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, who led the work. He said that if global warming was not halted, the rate of sea-level rise would change from millimetres per year to centimetres a year. “At that point it becomes about retreat [from cities], not engineering of defences.”As well as rising seas, climate change is also causing storms to become fiercer, forming a highly destructive combination for low-lying cities like New York, Mumbai and Guangzhou. Many coastal cities are growing fast as populations rise and analysis by World Bank and OECD staff has shown that  unless action is taken.The  in richer nations include Miami, Boston and Nagoya, while cities in China, Vietnam, Bangladesh and Ivory Coast are among those most in danger in less wealthy countries.The new research follows other recent studies warning of the  and suggesting . But the new work suggests that major rises are possible within the lifetimes of today’s children, not over centuries.“The bad news is that in the business-as-usual, high-emissions scenario, we end up with very, very high estimates of the contribution of  to sea-level rise” by 2100, DeConto told the Guardian. But he said that if emissions were quickly slashed to zero, the rise in sea level from Antarctic ice could be reduced to almost nothing.“This is the good news,” he said. “It is not too late and that is wonderful. But we can’t say we are 100% out of the woods.” Even if emissions are slashed, DeConto said, there remains a 10% chance that sea level will rise significantly.Prof David Vaughan, at the British Antarctic Survey and not part of the research team, said: “The new model includes for the first time a projection of how in future, the Antarctic ice sheet may to lose ice through processes that today we only see occurring in Greenland. “I have no doubt that on a century to millennia timescale, warming will make these processes significant in Antarctica and drive a very significant Antarctic contribution to sea level rise. The big question for me is, how soon could this all begin. I’m not sure, but these guys are definitely asking the right questions.”Active physical processes are well-known ways of breaking up ice sheets but had not been included in complex 3D models of the Antarctic ice sheet before. The processes include water from melting on the surface of the ice sheet to flow down into crevasses and widen them further. “Meltwater can have a really deleterious effect,” said DeConto. “It’s an attack on the ice sheet from above as well as below.”Today, he said, summer temperatures approach or just exceed freezing point around Antarctica: “It would not take much warming to see a pretty dramatic increase [in surface melting] and it would happen very quickly.”The new models also included the loss of floating ice shelves from the coast of Antarctica, which currently hold back the ice on land. The break-up of ice shelves can also leave huge ice cliffs 1,000m high towering over the ocean, which then collapse under their own weight, pushing up sea level even further.The scientists calibrated their model against geological records of events 125,000 years ago and 3m years ago, when the temperature was similar to today but sea level was much higher.Sea-level rise is also driven by the expansion of water as it gets warmer and in January scientists suggested this , adding further weight to concerns about future rises. and on Monday, it was announced that the  since records began in 1979, although the melting of this already floating sea ice does not push up ocean levels.</content>
<class_name>Sea level,Polar regions,Climate change,Antarctica,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:00:06+0100</date>
<title>Sea levels set to 'rise far more rapidly than expected'</title>
<content>Authorities in  City have temporarily ordered all cars to remain idle one day a week in response to this notoriously smoggy capital’s worst air-quality crisis in over a decade.Until now vehicles have been exempt from the Mexican capital’s “no circulation” rules if owners obtain a holographic sticker from a smog-check centre certifying them as lower-emission.But the Environmental Commission of the Megalopolis, a cross-government agency comprising the capital and surrounding suburbs that together are home to more than 20 million people, said via Twitter that all cars must now comply, even if they have the exemption sticker.Vehicles will also be forced to remain idle one Saturday a month.The measure will begin on Tuesday and run until 30 June, around the time that summer rains typically arrive and improve the region’s air quality significantly.Officials have been meeting to consider anti-pollution measures since  – the first since 2005 – was declared two weeks ago, when warm temperatures and still air left pollution trapped in Mexico City’s volcano-ringed valley.At the time, government officials and environmental activists pinned at least some of the blame on a supreme court decision last year that overturned a rule barring all cars over eight years old from the streets one day a week.The ruling is said to have put an extra 1.4m vehicles back on the roads each day.Smog levels dropped significantly during Easter Week, when much of Mexico City empties out due to the holiday. But on Wednesday afternoon authorities were reporting a pollution index of 108 – officially “bad”, though about half the levels recorded at the peak of the Phase 1 alert.The commission said that starting on 1 July, more modern technology will be put in place at smog-check centres. Vehicles are supposed to get checked every six months, though it’s common knowledge that for a bribe of $20 or so drivers can ensure a car comes out “clean”.“The definitive ‘no circulation’ program will align with the new rule for vehicular verification that will be presented soon,” the federal environment secretary, Rafael Pacchiano, tweeted.Pacchiano said that in addition to Wednesday’s emergency measures, authorities are working on medium-term solutions including improvements to public transportation.</content>
<class_name>Mexico,Americas,Pollution,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T23:19:19+0100</date>
<title>Mexico City orders all cars off the road one day a week to tackle air pollution</title>
<content>Toxic fumes from large cruise liners powered by giant diesel engines will worsen and could prevent the city from meeting its EU legal limits on deadly nitrogen oxide emissions, says resident groups opposing a new terminal.Plans for a wharf in the Thames that would be able to handle 240 metre-long cruise liners carrying up to 1,800 passengers and 600 crew were approved by Greenwich council last July but are being challenged in the high court by residents. Developers say that 55 liners a year, each weighing around 48,000 tonnes, would be expected to spend up to three days “hotelling” at Greenwich. Using their auxiliary diesel engines while moored, they would burn around 700 litres of diesel an hour for six months of the year in a borough considered a hot spot for air pollution.Consultants have calculated that each ship would emit the equivalent of 688 heavy lorries permanently running their engines at Enderby Wharf in Greenwich.But larger ships, potentially the size of the 12-deck high Crystal Symphony, may also be allowed to moor at Enderby and would emit as many diesel fumes as 2,000 lorries a day, say objectors. “On top of the ships the port will need tugs, hundreds of taxis and service vehicles all belching diesel close to high-density housing in an already heavily polluted area. I am aghast. Greenwich is already breaching EU limits. The council must know that 10,000 people a year die from diesel fumes a year in ,” said Ralph Hardwick, a campaigner from the Isle of Dogs.“The alternative is to supply clean onshore power to the cruise vessels rather than running filthy diesel engines. Yet the current planning permission does not require a cleaner operation. Nor has a health feasibility study been undertaken,” said a spokesman for East Greenwich Residents Association.A spokeswoman for  declined to comment pending the legal challenge.The residents will argue in court that the council should have required the development to provide an onshore power supply for the ships. If so, the liners could turn their engines off while berthed. Instead, it accepted the developers’ argument that it was not “commercially viable”.The legal challenge follows law firm  for a second time over what it says are its repeated failures to tackle illegal levels of air pollution in London and other UK cities.  forced the government to rethink its plans to meet EU limits. Concern about air pollution from cruise ships is growing as a  is commissioned and cruise holidays become more popular. The largest liners are now effectively floating cities, able to take 8,000 passengers and crew. Powered by some of the largest diesel engines in the world, they burn hundreds of tonnes of fuel a day. “Air pollution emissions from ships are continuously growing, while land-based emissions are gradually coming down. If things are left as they are, by 2020 shipping will be the biggest single emitter of air pollution in Europe, even surpassing the emissions from all land-based sources together,” said a spokesman with Brussels-based Air pollution from international shipping accounts for around 50,000 premature deaths per year in Europe, at an annual cost to society of more than €58bn, In Southampton, one of , up to five large liners a day can be berthed in the docks at the same time, all running engines 24/7, said Chris Hines, vice-chair of the  (WDCF).Southampton is one of the world’s busiest ports for starting and ending sea cruises. “Pollution from the ships is leading to asthma and other chest diseases. The docks are the most polluted areas of Southampton. The pollution is getting worse. We are now getting more, bigger liners, but also very large bulk cargo ships,” said Hines.Under EU law, ships must switch to their auxiliary engines and burn low-sulphur fuel within two hours of arriving in port until two hours before they leave. However, there are no regulations on how much NOx and particulate emissions they can emit.Low-sulphur fuel has greatly reduced SO2, or “acid rain” pollution but not other toxins like nitrogen oxides, benzene, toluene and formaldehyde which are emitted in diesel fuel and can have serious health impacts. According to the  admissions to hospital from lung, chest and heart diseases are most common from polluted areas like the docks.According to evidence given to the commitee by WDCF, the cumulative effect of up to 20 or more ships in port at the same time, including many large cruise liners with large diesel engines, was a major concern to the public. Incidences of lung diseases in the city and hospital admissions for respiratory diseases linked to air pollution were much higher than the average in England, it was said. Emissions can be reduced by 95% if ships and ports are adapted allow ships a shoreside electricity supply but this is resisted by the industry on grounds of practicality. According to Royal Caribbean, one of the largest cruise line companies in the world, only six out of the 490 ports that their ships visit have shore power.In evidence to the scrutiny committee, Royal Caribbean said: “If Southampton were to explore installing shore power, it would be important to note that ships may not come equipped to use it. The European Union has stated that emissions reductions of only 1-3% of emissions are seen during a seven-night cruise during which a ship could use shore power at every port on the itinerary.”</content>
<class_name>Travel and transport,Pollution,London,Cruises,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:00:06+0100</date>
<title>Huge cruise ships will worsen London air pollution, campaigners warn</title>
<content>BP’s decision to  is a milestone in the campaign to make fossil fuels a toxic brand, and not the first.Last November,  that it would not renew an agreement with Shell, after revelations that the firm had .Corporate sponsors have become more important for museums and arts institutes since the economic crisis began cutting off public funding sources.Some £410m a year of museum funding , with the Tate gallery group alone taking a £180m slice of that pie in the UK.Sources in the museum industry say that this can pose an ethical dilemma, especially when it is augmented by the more practical problem of ‘brownwash’. Fossil fuel firms may hope to gain an image boost from associating with the arts scene but this can all too easily come with a nosedive in reputation for the arts institutions themselves.“The protests have gradually had a grinding-down effect on the Tate,” one source in the museums industry said. “The campaign was targeting the kinds of people who go to the museum – so-called ‘special audiences’ - and I would imagine that these protests will have got to them and thrown doubt into their minds.”A fossil fuels-arts world divorce was “the way the world is moving,” the source said. Although the decision to end the Tate’s sponsorship arrangement was reportedly taken by BP , campaigners and arts industry sources believe it was also influenced by war-weariness at the Tate.BP’s donations to the gallery were “” – no more than £224,000 a year on average – and the Tate group may have felt that they no longer offset the baggage that came in tow. If so, the writing could be on the wall of other well-known tourist attractions. Campaigners say that most big cultural institutions in London now take funding from fossil fuel firms and three big names – the British Museum, Royal Opera House and National Portrait Gallery – will be deciding whether to renew contracts with Shell and  in the year ahead.In 2011, BP agreed to give these three institutions – and the Tate - . Anna Galkina, a campaigner with Platform London, said that the next protests would target the British Museum.She told the Guardian: “There will be all sort of interventions there, and the campaign on the other two institutions will definitely ramp up too, now that we know that it is winnable.”The  is a model for these pushes, and was born out of a workshop that the arts activist John Jordan gave at the Tate called ‘Disobedience makes history’ in 2009. Folklore has it that he was told he could speak about anything except actions against the Tate’s sponsorship arrangements – and so turned the workshop into a discussion of whether to confront the Tate.“There is always a turning point when a certain form of culture is seen as toxic and unacceptable,” Jordan told the Guardian. “At some point in the early 19th century the slave trade was no longer perceived as business as usual but a violent inhuman practice. Our cultural perception of the fossil fuel industry is now at a similar turning point - and not a minute too soon!”</content>
<class_name>Fossil fuels,Oil
(Environment),BP,Tate Modern,Tate Britain,Activism,Energy,Oil
(Business),Art,Arts funding,Museums,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-11T12:56:01+0000</date>
<title>A fossil fuels-arts world divorce is 'the way the world is moving'</title>
<content>The actor  has given his support to an anti-fracking film opposing shale gas drilling in the Welsh village of Pontrhydyfen, Richard Burton’s birth place.Sheen narrates the documentary A River, which is soundtracked by original music from Robert Del Naja and Euan Dickinson of , and warns of a pollution risk to the river Afan from potential fracking in the area.Shown at the House of Commons on Wednesday, the film tells the story of how the river, which flows through the Afan Forest Park and converges with the river Pelenna in Pontrhydyfen, recovered from pollution caused by a century of industrial mining to become a haven for walkers, mountain bikers and fishermen. It also focuses at the current battle by locals against fracking in the area.Sheen, who is from the nearby south west  village of Baglan, said the film raised “big concerns about fracking, about our environment and about the voice of people needing representation.”“It’s about my home and its history and, most importantly, its future,” he added.Anti-fracking action group  is fighting  to build an exploratory borehole to test for shale gas and coal bed methane at a site near Pontrhydyfen. The company’s plans were approved by Neath Port Talbot County Borough Council last week.Director Anthony Tombling Jr said his crew spent a year in and around the waterways of Cymer, Pontrhydyfen, Cwmafan and Port Talbot to make the film. The waterways, he said, “have survived so many years of pollution, and are now the giver of so much life, we owe it to future generations to protect them.“When I hear politicians trying to sell high pressure drilling as some kind of bridging energy source, it makes no sense to me. There is so much risk for such little gain. Considering the obscene amount of water used in the fracturing process, and the vast network of uncharted mines in the area, it seems that those choosing to ignore the dangers do so for one reason: profit.”Labour MP Stephen Kinnock, who hosted the screening today, said the Afan had helped shape the local area and its community for centuries. “The story of this beautiful river, and the communities that have grown up around it, needs to be heard far and wide,” he said.Bethan Jenkins AM, Plaid Cymru Assembly Member for South Wales West, who hosted a screening at the Welsh Assembly earlier this month, said the Pontrhydyfen community regarded proposals as: “a return to the dark old days of a polluted landscape, but this time with little or no economic benefit to the locality.” to “declare Neath Port Talbot a frack free county” has so far received more than 1,000 signatures. UK Methane  that it has drilled a number of similar boreholes in south Wales over the past few years and has had no problems. It said the industry could even lead to more jobs in the area.</content>
<class_name>Fracking,Wales,Energy,Fossil fuels,Michael Sheen,Pollution,Rivers,Massive Attack,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T14:42:11+0000</date>
<title>Michael Sheen and Massive Attack members support Welsh anti-fracking film</title>
<content>ustin Tipuric may not play again this season after suffering concussion in the final round of the Six Nations that left him unable to watch television a week later because it caused him headaches; the England captain, Dylan Hartley, suffered his second serious head injury of the season during the grand slam victory over France, admitting he could not remember lifting the Six Nations trophy after the match, and the Leicester wing Miles Benjamin has retired after a persistent knee injury.The ides of March. The size and power of the modern professional rugby player, and the subsequent rise in certain types of injury, most notably concussion, are forcing the authorities to look at whether changes in the rules can be made to ensure greater player safety. There is already a crackdown on tackles above shoulder level, but when players get their technique wrong, as Hartley did in grappling with the 24st France prop Uini Atonio, the consequences can be even more serious.The England Professional Rugby Surveillance Project, produced by the Rugby Football Union in association with Premiership Rugby and the Rugby Players’ Association, was published last week. It is the longest survey of its kind in the professional game, dating back to 2002, and it merits more attention than it received. If the rewards for professional players have never been higher in England as money washes into the Premiership, so the risks have never been greater.“The proportional profile of the type of match events leading to match time-loss injury remains similar to that observed throughout the duration of the injury surveillance project,” read the 40-page report. “It is important to note that for the second season in succession: 1) the proportion of injuries associated with running were significantly lower (8% of all injuries) and 2) the proportion of injuries associated with player-on-player (accidental or non-accidental) collisions (15% of all injuries) were significantly higher when compared with the average for the whole period 2002-14.“There was also an increase in the number of injuries attributed to a not-known event. It is important to note that of these “not-known” events, a proportion are injuries with a non-specific time of onset (eg they have developed over time) rather than acute injuries that are directly attributable to a match event. The tackle remains the match event most commonly associated with injury, accounting of 36% of all injuries in 2014-15.”The project’s steering group had 12 members from the worlds of medicine, rugby and education and was chaired by Dr Simon Kemp, the RFU’s chief medical officer. The report was based on data collected and analysed by Matthew Cross of the University of Bath with all 12 Premiership clubs and England contributing to the research. It looked at training as well as matches.“The severity of match injuries (the time taken to return to play) for the 2014-15 season was the highest reported since 2002 and although from a statistical perspective the average severity of 29 days still falls within the expected limits of variation, there is a trend for an increasing severity of match injuries. Specifically, there was an increase in the number of injuries that led to 84 days’ absence with the incidence of Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) and Medial Collateral Ligament (MCL) injuries to the knee in 2014-15 twice that reported in 2013-14. Other factors that may be contributing to this trend include an increase in the severity of specific injuries and more prolonged and comprehensive return to play protocols.”The average number of injuries suffered by a Premiership club in a match last season was 54, 1.6 a game. Due to the higher severity of injury in 2014-15, the overall risk of match injury (a combination of both incidence and severity was also the highest seen since the start of the surveillance project, equating to approximately 47 days’ absence per club per match. The overall risk of match injury remains within the expected limits of season-on-season variation, but there appears to have been an increase in the overall risk (total days lost) of match injuries since 2002.”The percentage of injuries which occurred in training was 34. “The severity of training injuries during season 2014-15 was 28 days and there appears to be a trend for increased severity of injuries… The severity of training injuries has been higher than the mean severity for the last three seasons and requires careful monitoring.”Scrums are safer after the change in the engagement process, but “the average severity of injuries sustained at the scrum was 52 days highlighting a greater severity of injury at the scrum when compared with the average for all match injuries. The severity of match injuries associated with the scrum has remained stable throughout the study period.”Concussion was the most common match injury in the 2011-12 season with 5.1 cases per 1,000 hours of rugby; the number has risen steadily since and reached 13.4 last season. The most common training injury remains hamstring, followed by calf muscle.“During the 2012-13 and 2013-14 seasons, the RFU and Premiership Rugby undertook a study of 810 Premiership players in order to explore the short and medium term clinical outcomes and subsequent injury risk following return to play from concussion.“In agreement with recent findings in other sports, this study found that players were at an increased risk of injury following return to play from concussion. In this study, there was a 60% increase in the risk of sustaining an injury (of any type) after returning from concussion compared with those players who had not reported a concussion but other injuries.“Thirty-eight percent of players reported a recurrence of symptoms or failed to match their baseline neurocognitive test during their graduated return to play protocol. The majority of players who had reportable data in the study were managed in accordance with current best-practice guidelines.“Return to play after concussion is not straightforward. Whether the process can be improved with specialist support (e.g. neurological, vestibular or psychological) remains unclear. More conservative return-to-play protocols with a greater focus on active rehabilitation of the systems likely impacted by a concussive injury may prove helpful – this study was not designed to answer this question.”that found that five players in Taranaki’s 1964 Ranfurly Shield winning side had been diagnosed with dementia, a condition attributed to concussions suffered in their playing days.Rugby is not all smash and grab, as Danny Cipriani showed for Sale against Leicester on Sunday with a try out of the Barry John manual, hypnotising defenders as he waved the ball in two hands before striking as they watched it rather than him. The outside-half is unlikely to go on England’s summer tour to Australia given Eddie Jones’s reaction last week when asked whether he would be taking a third No10 Down Under: “We are going with Danny Cipriani stories, are we?” he said before revealing that the player who interested him was Henry Slade, but the moments like the one Cipriani produced are the ones that are remembered and the lawmakers, as they sift through the injury data, will try to find a way of making them more frequent.</content>
<class_name>Rugby union,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:03:54+0100</date>
<title>Rugby union’s rewards have never been higher but risks have never been greater</title>
<content>The 50m and 100m breaststroke world record holder, Adam Peaty, believes weekly drug tests are the only way to keep swimming clean following recent .Peaty, who won  at the world championships last summer in Kazan, is preparing for the British Olympic trials in a fortnight’s time and revealed that he had been tested three times in the past few weeks. However, the 21-year-old expressed concern about the regularity of testing throughout the world.Russia is currently banned from international athletics competition, yet the swimming world body Fina has stated it is not aware of “concrete evidence of systematic doping” in Russia despite reports of a similar organised drug culture to that in track and field. This month Yuliya Efimova, the four-time breaststroke world champion, was suspended after .Peaty said he would not judge all Russian swimmers as dopers but believes weekly testing should be brought in. “I know testing week-on-week is expensive for governing bodies,” he said. “But what is more expensive is people coming out as cheats and then people [spectators] not watching. That’s more expensive to the sport.“[The coach] Jon Rudd down in Plymouth believes in more testing as well, with Ruta Meilutyte and his athletes like Ben Proud. He’s challenged testers to test every week if not twice a week because that’s the way it should be. Hopefully after the Olympics I’m tested every other week and other athletes are as well, that’s the way it should be.“If I win Olympic gold and people look at me as a cheat because I’ve won, it’s hugely disrespectful.  and all other sports have got to get to the place where you have the trust of the people watching it. You don’t want people thinking you’re a cheat just because you’re really fast and have broken the world record by a second. Hopefully it all settles down, the cheats are caught and the true athletes start to win.”On the Russian allegations, Peaty added: “Certain individuals like Efimova, with drugs like that, it’s hard to say you’ve done well. But hopefully I’ll line up against Russians and they will be as hard working as I am – that’s the way it should be.“If you line up against a doper, no matter from what country, it’s wrong. But I’m not going to blame a whole country. In my eyes that’s wrong because there are hard-working people. I’m just going to race and leave it to Wada and Fina to sort it out.”Fina is reviewing the decision by the Chinese Swimming Association to let two of its swimmers off with warnings for failed tests. Wang Lizhuo and An Jiabao tested positive for a banned substance and the CSA were notified in September 2015.A Fina statement said: “Fina notes the recent media articles about positive tests for the Chinese swimmers Wang Lizhuo and An Jiabao for clenbuterol and the sanctions imposed by the Chinese Swimming Association. Fina has received the decisions issued on these two athletes and is currently reviewing them.”</content>
<class_name>Swimming,Drugs in sport,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T23:09:01+0100</date>
<title>Adam Peaty: Bring in weekly drug testing or fans will ignore swimming</title>
<content>Eddie Jones described England’s  as a step up and nothing more, not carried away by winning a tournament that, with Ireland rebuilding, Wales remodelling and France revisiting the past, did not pass as vintage.As Guy Novès noted on Saturday night, England were a cut above the rest who, with the exception of Italy who look as if they could do with the threat of relegation to infuse them with some purpose, were close to each other. The devil was in Jones’s attention to detail and the new coach bounce, which worked for Wales in 2008 and Ireland a year later, which transported the World Cup hosts from the agony of autumn to the succour of spring.Jones was not triumphal in victory, aware that bigger hurdles lie ahead, starting with the three-Test summer tour to Australia. He has already bagged his countrymen about England’s prospects, mischievously  ahead of what should be some lively verbal jousting with his former Randwick team-mate, Michael Cheika who, as Jones was to do with England, turned the Wallabies into  in his first year in charge.England have won only three Tests in Australia since they first played there in 1963. Jones was involved in two, both in 2003, because he was coaching the Wallabies at the time. The other came , England’s last Test down under. The other 14 matches ended in defeat, but as the three successes came in the past seven games there, history is not firmly set against them.England’s five matches in the Six Nations have been dissected in Australia, , and impressed is perhaps not quite the word, not that there was much deference shown there to the men in white when they arrived for the 2003 World Cup. Jones will know what to expect and this week got in his retaliation first.Jones knows England will have to improve in all areas and that his side does not bear comparison with the 2003 side, the previous year when the grand slam was won, not least because that team was at the end of its cycle whereas this year’s model has just hit the road. There was an emphasis in the  on turning the strengths of opponents into weaknesses, particularly in the final three matches, and without the greater ambition of the previous year when England played with a style they were to jettison in the World Cup, there were fewer mistakes.England conceded an average of more than 12 penalties a match, prepared to infringe wilfully, not least when they were under pressure in Paris. A yellow card against Wales nearly cost them at the end and they got away with two against Ireland, but they are unlikely to survive with as high a penalty count in Australia. They were defensively loose at times, scrambling effectively, and France in particular found holes without being able to take advantage.England will have the advantage of a warm-up match before the tour, with Wales visiting Twickenham for the third time this season at the end of May. The game will be played the day after the Premiership final and, based on the matchday 23 at Stade de France, Jones will lose at least four players if Northampton and Exeter are competing for the title (although that would also deny the head coach the chance to pick Henry Slade) and a maximum of 10 if Saracens and Harlequins are involved.Australia will go into the first Test cold with their previous match the World Cup final against New Zealand at the end of October. One argument for the Six Nations being slow to get into gear is that the teams have not played for a while, although all the preparation that went into the World Cup weakened it this year, and when England went to New Zealand two years ago with a weakened team for the first Test at Eden Park (the venue for Wales’s opening match against the All Blacks in June) because players from the Premiership finalists Saracens and Northampton were not considered, they .Only seven of the 23 players involved that day featured in this year’s Six Nations campaign, a number that rose to 11 in the second Test when England were able to pick from full strength. Yet Jones inherited the bulk of his squad from his predecessor, Stuart Lancaster, adding a bit of dog and cuteness.Lancaster has maintained his silence since losing the England job after the World Cup inquest. He would have had mixed emotions watching the Six Nations: pride at the performances of players he gave their first caps offset by a general lack of recognition of the part he played in the team’s success. The World Cup defeat to Wales did not define his four-year reign, it merely cost him his position. Jones had less of a building job than Lancaster did in 2012, getting into minds rather than looking for new bodies.Such is sport, but there is little danger of England imploding as Wales did after winning the 2005 grand slam when some players felt that too much praise was given to the then head coach, Mike Ruddock, who like Jones enjoyed a clean sweep in his first Six Nations campaign, and not enough to his predecessor, Steve Hansen. It created a poisonous atmosphere that cost Ruddock his job the following year and left Wales in freefall until Warren Gatland was summoned from New Zealand.Jones talked this week about the need to go up another level against Australia. This year’s Six Nations largely showed why none of its teams made the semi-finals of last year’s World Cup and the potential quality of the Wallabies’ attacking play was something England did not come up against, and the same goes for New Zealand-bound Wales.The Six Nations teams should be in it together. The tournament has so much going for it, not least an audience with a seemingly insatiable appetite, but attacking skills are lacking with each match scarred by basic mistakes. There should be a combined effort by the six to raise standards and better equip themselves to take on the Rugby Championship sides, and one area where the rest could follow England is in the greater onus Jones has put on his players to make decisions. England will only get better under him and it is up to the rest to respond. </content>
<class_name>England rugby union team,Eddie Jones,Six Nations 2016,Six Nations,Rugby union,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T12:12:39+0000</date>
<title>Eddie Jones gets his retaliation in first as England set their sights on Australia</title>
<content> I’ve chosen Shutthefrontdoor as my OLBG  Charity Grand National Bet with £25 each-way being placed on the Jonjo O’Neill-trained runner. All proceeds will go to the Injured Jockeys’ Fund. that the selection has experienced a better preparation than last year when he carried the champion jockey into fifth spot on his final trip around the National course. He travelled like the best horse in the race for a long time in 2015 until an absence from the track told in the closing stages and is 1lb lower in the ratings for the big race a week on Saturday.Ignore the gelding’s latest run when he pulled up as Shutthefrontdoor was reported by his trainer to have been suffering from abscesses on his feet afterwards. He’s a proven long-distance campaigner with a touch of class, having a victory in the Irish National on his CV, and I don’t expect him to be trading at his current odds of 25-1 come the big day. is the sort of tip you come up with on a quiet day when you’re really just waiting for a major bit of racing in about a week’s time. His chance is far from obvious and he might easily finish tailed off. But there’s something there.Running for David Wachman just six starts ago, he won a little race at Tramore, there being no other kind of race available at Tramore. At that point he was rated 20lb above his present mark. He achieved next to nothing in five English starts for Ralph Smith last year but it was a tough year for Smith’s yard generally.Now Hurricane Volta is with another trainer, Peter Hedger. He has been gelded since his last run and wears cheekpieces for the first time since Tramore.If Hedger has him ready to go, he could get involved in a weak-looking race. “Market support should be noted,” says the Racing Post. Well, there’s been none of that, he’s a 20-1 shot, but that doesn’t worry me. Hedger had a 25-1 winner at this track in September and he had a 14-1 winner in a five-runner race last summer.Earlier on the card, I’ll have another go at  at 7-4. He looked the best horse in his race at Lingfield yesteday but didn’t get the best trip. Hopefully Rosie Jessop can get more out of him from an inside draw that should help this prominent racer.At Ffos Las,  is interesting, having moved from the yard of Nick Williams to Kerry Lee, who has stuck a tongue tie and cheekpieces on him for this first start in four months. Now 11, Alfie Spinner has dropped 22lb from his peak rating. It’s an age since he won anything but this change in circumstances could draw something more out of him. He’s 15-8 against a handful of rivals.Our winners so far:TuesdaySee Double You 15-2Gibbstown 7-2Nouvelli Dancer 15-2WednesdayMusic Major 8-1Alderley Heights 33-1Lucy The Painter 2-1And our leader is:Mulldog +14… who stayed on the same score by picking Lucy The Painter and now has the lead to himself. Other good scores: sandiuk +11.50, Geoff Staddon +11, Shrewdette +7.50, BearRides +7, TomMcNeil +7, maghazi +7, BatmanKaisers +6, ID0133207 +5.50, factormax +5.50.Today, we’d like your tips, please, for these races: .Crabbie’s Alcoholic Ginger Beer, sponsors of the Grand National, have provided this week’s very generous prize; two prizes, in fact. The top two tipsters in this week’s competition will each get a pair of tickets for all three days of next week’s  meeting at Aintree! How about it?As ever, our champion will be the tipster who returns the best profit to notional level stakes of £1 at starting price on our nominated races, of which there will be three each day up until Friday. Non-runners count as losers. If you have not joined in so far this week, you are welcome to do so today but you will start on -6.In the event of a tie at the end of the week, the winner will be the tipster who, from among those tied on the highest score, posted their tips earliest on the final day.For terms and conditions click .Good luck!</content>
<class_name>Horse racing tips,Grand National 2016,Grand National,Horse racing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:08:18+0100</date>
<title>Talking Horses: Thursday’s best bets plus all the latest racing news</title>
<content>1) Behind the scenes of England’s grand slam win. Featuring Billy Vunipola . And while you’re at it, go on then England fans: . Speaking of Billy Vunipola, the main criticism of the Six Nations is that it features little more than a bunch of massive blokes running into each other. Thanks goodness, then, . You might think that being 6ft 5in, 20 stone and able to run 100 metres in under 11 seconds means that you have it all your own way. Not quite, and .2) Nominations for the Miss of the Season awards are now open. Recently, there’s Hibernian’s  and  are for your consideration.  remains a front runner too.3) There are last-minute winners and then there is . The beauty here lies not so much in the distance but in the synchronicity between the buzzer and the ball dropping through the hoop.4) Duncan Ferguson, Andy Carroll, Terry Butcher, Martin Keown, Zlatan Ibrahimovic. All fine headers of a football but none as impressive as . Yes, head ping pong.  eat your heart out.5) England’s T20 team got away with one after collapsing against Afghanistan. , Australia. Indeed, no former England captain .Then again, that was : 103 for one, 115 for two, 122 for three and 147 for four. Then 150 all out. England can just be thankful that  wasn’t there. This video appears to be his own Geoffrey-Boycott-in-the-1965-Gillette-Cup-final moment.6) Kevin Spacey  in a Kevin Spacey mask and Kevin Spacey in space hoody.1) In one of the more unlikely videos we’ve seen, Michel Lauzière . The best use of Mozart since ? And certainly a better sport-music mashup than  at DJ horse racing commentary.2) An update on last week’s animal invasions: . This one gets extra comedy points for the cute little animal taking a good chunk out of not one but two players. It certainly faired better than .3) If only England’s fielders were  they might not have had to chase 230 against South Africa. To think he probably .4) “,” says BlackCaesar below the line. It’s an apt description.5) . Never mind the stonewall silence from Vinny Jones and Bobby Gould, enjoy the look on the reporter’s face when his producer tells a whopping great fib.6) The only way this commentator could have sounded more excited by  is if he had . despitehiswhiteboots, BlackCaesar, dirkdirka, kisbie, TheCedarRoom.</content>
<class_name>US sports,Australia sport,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T10:00:16+0000</date>
<title>Billy Vunipola v Backstreet Boys, misses of the season and Mozart on rollerblades</title>
<content> is at the centre of a row in Egypt after a local politician and a football official reacted furiously to the Barcelona player donating a pair of his boots to a charity auction.The MBC Masr channel broadcast an interview last week with Messi on its  show, during which the Argentina forward, , offered to auction the boots.Branding the gesture “humiliating”, the MP and television presenter Said Hasasin, appearing on his own talk show, tore off his shoes and said he would donate them to the poor of Argentina.“Whose shoes do you want to sell, Messi? How much do you think it will get? You don’t know that the nail of a baby Egyptian is worth more than your shoes? Keep your shoes to yourself.“Messi, we Egyptians are 90 million people, who have pride, we have shoes. We don’t eat off the money of other peoples’ shoes. I would have understood if he donated his  uniform to the Egyptians, it’s accepted. But just the shoes?“It’s humiliating to all Egyptians and I do not accept this humiliation. Egyptians may not find food, but they have pride. We Egyptians have never been humiliated before during our seven thousand years of civilisation.”Azmy Megahed, a spokesman for Egypt’s FA, told Hasasin on his show: “If he [Messi] intends to humiliate us, then I say he’d better put these shoes on his head and on the heads of the people supporting him … Give your shoes to your country, Argentina is full of poverty.”MBC Masr’s Mona El-Sharkawy who interviewed Messi said the gesture had been misinterpreted and that the donation was not for an Egyptian charity.“This is so false. It’s a trend on our show that we take a souvenier from our guest and put it on auction for charity,” El-Sharkawy told news agency Ahram. “I am surprised, I didn’t say we will be giving it to charity in Egypt or any other place. I don’t know why they said he is presenting it to . This was never said.”Messi has not commented on the reaction to his donation, but the former Egypt forward Mido : “The most precious thing the writer owns is his pen ... and the most precious thing the footballer owns is his shoes. I hope we stop the false accusations.”</content>
<class_name>Lionel Messi,Barcelona,Egypt,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T16:06:50+0100</date>
<title>Lionel Messi blasted by Egyptian MP over ‘humiliating’ boot donation</title>
<content> will make his comeback after a 10-week ban when the Premiership leaders, Saracens, take on Bath at the Recreation Ground on Friday.Ashton has been sidelined since Saracens’ European Champions Cup  in January. The 29-year-old was suspended after being cited for making contact with the Ulster player Luke Marshall’s eye area during a game at Allianz Park. A subsequent appeal by Ashton . The wing, who had appeared to be on course for an England return under the head coach Eddie Jones for this season’s Six Nations Championship, saw those hopes of a recall dashed.A strong end to the season with , though, could see him firmly in the frame for England’s June tour to Australia that features Tests against the Wallabies in Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney. Ashton has scored 19 tries in 39 England appearances, but he has not played Test rugby since June 2014.Saracens’ director of rugby, Mark McCall, said: “Chris’s attitude has been really good. He has worked hard on his game throughout the 10-week period, and I know he is itching to get out there playing once again. He was in great form before the suspension came along, and he is going to provide something different to our team with his x-factor. We are looking forward to seeing him back out on the pitch on Friday.”</content>
<class_name>Chris Ashton,Saracens,Rugby union,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:04:39+0100</date>
<title>Chris Ashton to make Saracens comeback against Bath after suspension</title>
<content> continued his dominant form in sweeping aside Tomas Berdych to reach the last four of the Miami Open.The world No1 had not dropped a set at the tournament and that continued with a 6-3, 6-3 victory over the No7 seed.Djokovic broke early in both sets while also showing his usual steeliness to fight off several break points from Berdych, winning in just over 100 minutes to bring up his 26th victory of the year.The top seed will face David Goffin after the Belgian continued his impressive run of form. Goffin, the world No15, recovered from a slow start to beat France’s Gilles Simon 3-6, 6-2, 6-1.In the women’s event, Angelique Kerber will play Victoria Azarenka in the last four. Azarenka  on Wednesday.Kerber, the Australian Open champion progressed with a routine 6-3, 6-2 victory over Madison Keys.</content>
<class_name>Novak Djokovic,Tennis,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:58:54+0100</date>
<title>Novak Djokovic beats Tomas Berdych to make Miami Open semi-finals</title>
<content> will get an opportunity to avenge the only blemish on his UFC record after securing a rematch with Nate Diaz on the UFC 200 card in Las Vegas on 9 July.The announcement was made by  boss Dana White, who initially simply tweeted a poster graphic of the duo with the word “200.”The fight will once again take place at the welterweight limit.Featherweight champion McGregor suffered his first and only loss when American Diaz submitted him in the second round of their bout at UFC 196 in March.Speaking on ESPN Sportscenter, White said Irishman McGregor was the one clamouring for the fight.“He was obsessed – obsessed with fighting Nate Diaz again,” White said. “Obviously, [UFC co-owner] Lorenzo [Fertitta] and I tried to argue with him and said, ‘Let’s go back to 145 [pounds] and defend your title. Or if you really want the Diaz fight that bad, do it at 155 [pounds]’.“He wants the fight at 170. Even his coach tried to get him to get off the rematch and off the 170-pound fight but it’s what he wanted.”</content>
<class_name>Conor McGregor,UFC,MMA,US sports,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T03:11:53+0100</date>
<title>Conor McGregor gets rematch against Nate Diaz at UFC 200</title>
<content>The six-time Olympic cycling champion  says he will fulfil a lifelong dream by competing in the Le Mans 24 Hour race in June.The 40-year-old, Britain’s most successful Olympian after retiring following two gold medals in the velodrome at London 2012, will compete in the prestigious endurance race, which was first run in 1923 and takes place overnight from 18-19 June.Hoy will drive a Nissan-powered Ligier JS P2 chassis at Le Mans’ Circuit de la Sarthe, in the second, LMP2 tier of racing, along with two team-mates.Hoy, who first raced with Nissan in 2014 following his retirement from cycling, said: “I remember getting a Scalextric track when I was five or six. One of the cars had headlights on it. I remember asking my dad why and he said: ‘That’s for the Le Mans 24 Hour race – they race through the night.’ I didn’t do this to replace my cycling, but in many ways I get to carry on some of the really enjoyable parts of my cycling career into motorsport.“It’s exactly the same feeling you have when you’re about to race, doesn’t matter whether it’s on a bike, in a car or even when I was younger, racing BMXs. There’s still that excitement, the nervousness, the adrenaline. I never thought I’d feel that again once I retired from cycling – I thought that was the end of that part of my life.”Comparisons will inevitably be made with Victoria Pendleton’s Switching Saddles project, when the two-time Olympic cycling champion took up horse racing and competed at Cheltenham, finishing fifth .Hoy raced in the British GT Championship in 2014 after going through the manufacturer’s intensive driver development programme. He secured a podium place at Spa in his debut season and took part in the five-event European Le Mans Series in 2015. His team won the title, earning a place at Le Mans, where his team-mates will be the Frenchman Andrea Pizzitola and Britain’s Michael Munemann.Hoy knew it would be a difficult task to reach his stated aim of a place at Le Mans, but now it is little more than two months away and he will race at Silverstone in April and Imola, Italy in May to hone preparations.The 11-time cycling world champion added: “I wasn’t really surprised at how hard it was. It’s like someone saying: ‘If you can ride a bike, you can win an Olympic gold medal.’ As soon as you step on a track, even go-karting, you get a feel for the skill involved.The Scot went to last year’s race as a spectator and did some testing, but does not have a target in mind for the race and is yet to consider his future in motorsport.He added: “I’m not thinking beyond Le Mans. It’s only a matter of weeks away now. I’m not even thinking beyond the start line – I’m just thinking about getting to the start of the race and we’ll deal with it from there.”</content>
<class_name>Sir Chris Hoy,Le Mans 24 Hours,Motor sport,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:32:18+0100</date>
<title>Sir Chris Hoy to fulfil ‘lifelong dream’ competing in Le Mans 24 Hour race</title>
<content>With Sir David Attenborough espousing its delights in his , the  – made up of the 1,400-mile string of islands, coral reefs and sand cays off the Queensland coast – is ready for the rush. One of Attenborough’s programmes features the giant manta rays of Lady Elliot Island, 50 miles from Bundaberg (a four-hour drive from Brisbane), and visitors can check them out on a stay at the island’s (twins from £83pppn). Another option is to nip over to Lady Musgrave Island on a  from Bundaberg (day tour £100) or pack a tent to make like a castaway on  (permit £3pp). Or try glam hostel , which opened recently adjacent to the reef in Townsville (dorm beds from £14, rooms from £60). Alternatively, head for Ningaloo Reef on Australia’s north-west coast, which attracts far fewer tourists than the Great Barrier and has plenty to offer. At its southern end is the superbly remote , where you can volunteer on operations such as protecting turtle nests, or use it as a base for fishing, surfing (some of the best breaks in the world are here) and snorkelling (camping £9, cabins from £17). Further north, in Exmouth, a number of operators offer swimming with whale sharks, but now licences have been issued for swimming with humpback whales too: around 30,000 of them annually migrate along the coast.  offers whale swim trips from £190. Tours will run from June to October. Another newcomer is a kayak trail with moorings and free campsites along the coast, with the best snorkelling sites pin-pointed.  has a three-day trip from £487. With its wide boulevards and neoclassical buildings on the banks of the Garonne, Bordeaux has never been short of ambition. Now the centre of the region that produces the biggest volume of fine wines in France wants to be known as the wine capital of the world. And it’s staking its claim with the opening in June of an ultra-modern museum, , “exploring the evolution of wine and honouring all vintages of the planet”. Already dubbed the “Guggenheim of wine”, the futuristic, glass-clad, curved building was designed to evoke wine flowing through a stemmed glass, and aims to liberate wine tourism from its stuffy, elitist reputation. The 10-storey building will house an “immersive” tour of viniculture, including a “theatre of experts”, with professionals appearing as holograms dispensing advice, and “magic binoculars” for looking out over the world’s vineyards. There will be a restaurant at the top of the 55-metre viewing tower, and once visitors have had their fill of theory, boats can shuttle them to vineyards on the outskirts of Bordeaux.  This year marks the centenary of the 1916 Easter Rising, a crucial step towards Irish independence a few years later. Commemorative events include a major exhibition in Dublin’s National Museum of Ireland, at Collins Barracks, called: Proclaiming a Republic: The 1916 Rising (), it opens on 3 March. Other events include a day of celebration with music, theatre and dance on 28 March and on 26 April. Events come to life on a , which visits landmarks including ,  and . Afterwards, visit the new , the first distillery to open in Dublin in 125 yearstours include tastings of the golden liquor, of course. And try  for some of the freshest seafood in town.If you thought you’d seen all there was to see of the “Marvellous City” during the 2014 Brazil World Cup, think again. Rio’s stunning natural landscape should make this the most photogenic Olympics ever. The rowing will be held on the Lagoa, a natural lake ringed by imposing black mountains; the road cycling will speed through the city’s rainforested hills; and the beach volleyball will be on Copacabana beach – also the site of the Olympic fanzone. Away from sport, the new  in the old port district, designed by Santiago Calatrava and opened last month, looks at the need for change if mankind is to avoid climate disaster. The elegant, futuristic building is already being described as one of the city’s must-see sights.  during the Olympics will be expensive, but at any other time your money will go a long way as the value of the real, Brazil’s currency, has fallen sharply over the past year.A new 3D animation movie of much-loved classic The Jungle Book, featuring the voices of Neel Sethi, Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson, is set to hit the big screen in April. Rudyard Kipling’s tale of Mowgli and co was inspired by the wildlife and landscapes of Madhya Pradesh, and those keen to seek out the wild Bengal tiger and other jungle animals can join a new tour in Satpura national park with , which offers camping overnight in the park for the first time (from £745 for four nights). Another new option is the , a 10-day tour from Village Ways (from £1,115), which includes time in Satpura as well as Pench Tiger Reserve. Wild Frontiers has a special  for 2016, visiting three parks – Kanha, Satpura and Tadoba (12 days from £2,795).There have been times in recent years when the arrival of a western tourist at an Iranian hotel attracted a crowd of sightseers and a formal welcome from management. But since the Vienna agreement on the country’s was reached in July and the subsequent softening of relations with the west, those rare visitors are set to grow in number. Exposure to contemporary culture from Iran has also grown this year with the film  giving a snapshot of the lives of residents in the capital, while Iranian-American director Ana Lily Amirpour’s noir vampire western  brought a transnational vision of cool to our cinema screens. Even though truly independent travel is still not possible, more tour operators are running holidays there. With a land area almost seven times that of Britain, several climate zones and , the country has plenty to offer. It has bazaars, mosques and gardens galore, but the real pleasure is the people – encounters are never dull. The unmissable site is Persepolis, the seat of Darius the Great and his son Xerxes, which is astonishingly well-preserved. Also look out for the  (a 14th-century mausoleum, the third-largest brick dome ever built), Takht-e Soleyman (a spiritual site celebrating fire and water) and the cities of  and . Modern art lovers can enjoy works by Warhol, Monet and Pollock, hidden during the revolution but now on display in the . More adventurous souls might explore the Alburz mountains, where shepherds walk their flocks up to more than 4,000 metres through flower-decked meadows. Less strenuous would be a rail trip: luxury tours run from Turkey, and new deals with Austria promise further developments.Wild Frontiers trips to Iran include  around the Caspian Sea plus parts of Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan (from £3,295).  has launched the UK’s first dedicated Iran brochure, and Regent Holidays has a 14-day  (departs 26 September, from £3,495pp, including flights). Imaginative Traveller has two new trips:  and . The latter is a 15-day tour, starting and ending in Tehran, and visiting its major historic cities, as well as the desert city of Yazd. Departs 23 May (£2,100, flights not included).From the end of March, a direct bullet train will link Tokyo with Hokkaido, the northernmost of Japan’s main islands, considered to be the country’s natural adventure playground. In summer, visitors head there for hiking, climbing and camping in its vast expanse of forests, lakes, mountains and hot springs. In winter, reliable snowfall makes for great skiing, with Niseko the most famous resort. In a recent survey, Hokkaido was Japanese travellers’ preferred region, with Hakodate, the gateway to Hokkaido, voted the country’s most attractive tourist destination, followed by Sapporo. Hakodate is celebrated for its historic buildings, landscapes including Mount Hakodate, and dishes such as  (salmon roe) and squid-ink ice-cream. Sapporo, meanwhile, is styling itself as Japan’s version of US hipster city Portland. People are relocating there for its laid-back lifestyle, outdoorsy edge, winter festival, small start-up businesses and retro-styled bar scene. The Hokkaido Shinkansen route will connect Tokyo with Shin-Hakodate Hokuto in four hours, two hours less than the current journey time. A seven-day  costs £157. Swimming (and architecture) fans are in for a treat when the art deco Penzance Jubilee Pool – the largest surviving seawater lido in Britain – reopens in May. Built in 1935, it was damaged by storms in 2013 but has now been returned to its full glory. Stay in the newly opened  (from £150 a night), a  with six rooms overlooking the sea. New food choices include seafood specialist  from former Rick Stein chef Bruce Rennie. reopens on 21 May after a refurbishment and expansion project, while the  is opening a new timber-clad 115-room eco-hotel for next summer.Cornwall will be in the limelight once more when the second series of BBC drama Poldark airs in the autumn – and , a National Trust property that appears in the show, is available for rent from £275 for three nights. This year is also the 10th anniversary of Cornwall’s mining landscapes becoming a Unesco world heritage site. To celebrate, a steam-powered cast-iron puppet of a miner, that’s 12 metres tall, will spend two weeks in late July walking across Cornwall, stopping at mining locations en route.Food fans who have the appetite, if not the wallet, for Nordic cuisine should head to Copenhagen, where some of the city’s high-end restaurants are opening casual alternatives. While René Redzepi’s world-beating Noma relocates to Sydney from January to April, the team is opening a new spot, called , with more seats and a more affordable menu than the mothership. 108 will start off as a pop-up on Noma’s premises during the Australian hiatus, before moving to a permanent location. Small plates (around £10) and mains (£15) will include cured squid and bacon broth, and caramelised milk skin with veal tongue. , another celebrated restaurant in the canal area of Christianshavn, has also launched a more laid-back offshoot, , with a menu featuring papadums and Thai coconut soup – signalling the city’s appreciation for a cuisine beyond foraged beach herbs and Nordic dogmas. Craft brewery Mikkeller follows this trend with recently opened  in the bohemian Nørrebro district, serving, as the name suggests, bowls of ramen. Visitors can sample some of the city’s best restaurants in August, at the .In February, this small Dutch town an hour south of Amsterdam by train will stage a cultural coup. Dutch Renaissance painter Hieronymus Bosch was born and worked in the town, and died there 500 years ago. To pay tribute, the  is putting on an exhibition of 39 of the artist’s iconic paintings and drawings – the largest ever Bosch exhibition. The whole town is getting into the spirit of the artist’s fantastical paintings, with fringe events such as a jaunt around the city’s canals and river called the Boat Trip of Heaven and Hell, and some of Bosch’s more grotesque works projected on to walls beneath its tunnels and bridges.This summer, Bishop Auckland in County Durham will host an open-air historical theatrical spectacular called  – an epic tale of England. The production was inspired by the French theme park , has a cast of over 1,000 members of the local community on a seven-acre stage, and will take up to 8,000 spectators on a journey through 2,000 years of English history. Visitors to the market town can also enjoy – which serves as a backdrop to the production – the  at Shildon, nearby , and the beauty of the North Pennines AONB. The city of Durham is a 20-minute drive away. On 25 August 1916, President Woodrow Wilson signed the act that created the National Park Service, “to conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wild life therein and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for future generations”.One hundred years later, the 84-million-plus-acre National Park Service comprises 409 sites, including 58 national and historical parks, monuments, battlefields, and seashore. In 2014, almost 293 million people visited them. The opening event of the centennial takes place on 1 January, with the enormous  winding through the streets of Pasadena, Los Angeles – the theme is “Find Your Adventure’’ in a US national park. All national parks will waive their entrance fees on 16 special days in 2016, including during National Park Week (16-24 April), and the National Park Service Birthday (25-28 August). through some of the most beautiful national parks in the western US. The trip begins and ends in San Francisco, with plenty of time to explore sights from the Grand Canyon to the red cliffs and Angels Landing rock formations of Zion national park. The route also takes in Mesa Verde, Canyonlands and Arches, Yellowstone, Capitol Reef, Bryce Canyon, Death Valley and Yosemite. The trips costs from £2,089pp including flights and hotels. For non-drivers, a similar 17-day tour with transport provided costs £2,209.  Peru has long been the most popular destination in South America for British visitors, so it’s about time an airline launched a direct flight from London to Lima, as  will do in May, cutting up to three hours off previous flights times via Spain. But while most tourists are drawn by  and other ancient sites, the Peruvian capital continues to develop as a destination for those interested in contemporary culture.  – ceviche and pisco sours – is at the forefront of this, thanks to Virgilio Martínez, owner of , who opened a more casual restaurant, , in upmarket Miraflores in August. The Barranco area has more grazing spots, such as , for a modern take on earthy cuisine, and  for fresh ice-cream. The area also has small cafes, design shops and galleries. The art scene has also been growing: Mario Testino’s  museum opened in 2012, joining the more established .Getting to  from the UK used to involve travelling via Madrid or Miami. No more: Thomson launched the first direct flights, from Gatwick to the northern city of Liberia, in November, while BA is starting direct flights from Gatwick to the capital, San José, in April. The twice-weekly BA flights (return from £499) will cut the journey time to just under 11 hours.The new flights have coincided with several hotel openings, from luxury resorts such as  (doubles from $226) in the north and  (doubles from $275) further south, to simpler properties like Nammbú Beachfront Bungalows in Playa Carrillo (doubles from $175, no website). Holiday companies are launching tours, too, such as National Geographic and G Adventures’ 14-day trip, which includes meeting researchers at a sea turtle conservancy and joining in reforestation projects (from £1,429pp without flights). has an astonishing array of endemic species, thanks to the diverse landscape and microclimates on its two coasts (with great beaches and surfing), mountains, jungles and volcanoes. It also has pioneering sustainability policies – a quarter of the landmass is protected.  national park, 110 miles from San Jose, is one of the best places for trekking and wildlife spotting. It is home to most of the country’s native species, including howler monkeys, sloths and iguanas. The country is a year-round destination, with a dry season from November to April and a mild rainy season from May to October. Le Marche, a region halfway up the eastern side of Italy’s boot, is slowly being discovered by Brits: visitor numbers were up 24% in the year to August, though from a very low base. And tourists are staying there longer – enjoying the region’s beaches, hilltop villages, art-filled towns and great outdoors for their own sake, rather than making a quick foray from Umbria or Abruzzo. Hospitality in Le Marche used to be in staid business hotels or pack-’em-in beachside billets, with (uninspiring) half-board compulsory in summer. But a younger generation has taken the British concept of bed-and-breakfast to their hearts. (doubles from €69 B&B) is in a 14th-century village house in Morrovalle, between the sea and the old university city of Macerata, with two bedrooms, a walled garden and great views. Less than an hour away is one of Italy’s best beaches, spectacular Due Sorelle, beneath white cliffs and accessible by boat from the harbour at Numana. Inland, medieval Urbino is a must-see for the renaissance art in its , but fans of more modern art can put together a great tour of contemporary galleries, from  in tiny Monteciccardo, to  inside a 15th-century tower in Cagli.Slovenia’s capital is the , thanks to projects over the past decade to improve its environment – which have also made it more attractive to visitors. Large parts of Ljubljana have now been pedestrianised, existing green spaces have been restored, and new ones have been created. Paths wind down from  (the main tourist attraction), huge  reaches almost to the city centre, and the  initiative has brought free books and deckchairs to seven locations. Eco-friendly ways to explore include a stand-up paddleboard tour with  along the Ljubljanica river, whose embankments have also been renovated to encourage walking.Traditional dishes and local ingredients are being revived across the city: a good place to sample them is in  restaurant, which specialises in hearty home-cooking, such as smoked goose breast with truffles. There will be more green projects throughout the year, including the creation of a public orchard.This year marks the 25th anniversary of Slovenia’s independence from Yugoslavia. There will be celebrations on Slovene National Day (24 June), Sovereignty Day (25 October), and Slovenian Independence and Unity Day (23 December) and events all through the year. See .What Ljubljana lacks in unmissable attractions it makes up for with beautiful architecture (especially Jože Plečnik’s buildings), a laid-back atmosphere and scores of riverside bars serving excellent Slovenian wines. The pick of the hotels is  (doubles from £86), right on the river in the heart of the city: it has cutting-edge design and a tiny roof terrace with an infinity pool.It’s been “up-and-coming” for a few years, but Sri Lanka keeps on giving, with more hotels and new trips. Catch that perfect wave and perfect your downward dog on a surfing and yoga holiday with , which has just opened a permanent base on the south coast, after its success in Kerala. A week to suit all levels costs from £775pp, including surf and yoga lessons, full-board and transfers, but excluding flights.Many of the new openings are on the luxury side – special occasion or honeymoon material. Among the most hotly anticipated is the eco boutique hotel  (pictured, doubles from £165 half-board), a sustainable design hotel overlooking the country’s finest lake, Koggala.  (doubles from £199 B&B) also opened last month, in Thalpe on the south coast: it’s another boutique property with an arty vibe, created by 20 artists.On 23 April, to mark 400 years since the death of William Shakespeare, the BBC will broadcast a live tribute from the RSC theatre in Stratford. Spring is a great time to explore more of the playwright’s home county. As well as the RSC itself (which opens a new  and the Other Place studio theatre in 2016), Shakespeare’s house, , and the , both open as major attractions in April. At theatre in London, Hamlet returns for a weekend of performances after a world tour on 23 and 24 April.Iceland’s popularity is well-justified, but access is nearly always through Reykjavik, giving any trip a bias towards the west. In May, new direct flights from Gatwick to Egilsstaðir in the east will allow visitors to head straight to some of the wilder, more remote areas. There are impressive drives down the east coast fjords, taking in little towns such as Seyðisfjörður, a good base for summer hiking. Other highlights are treks to Mount Snæfell or the Hafrahvammar canyon. For full immersion in Icelandic culture, head up the Fljótsdalur valley, a place inextricably linked with author Gunnar Gunnarsson, nominated six times for the Nobel prize. At the upper end of the valley, tourists can walk or ride horses into a lost wilderness inhabited by pink-footed geese, reindeer and arctic foxes. Flights to Egilsstaðir will operate twice weekly from May with . The tour operator also offers a seven-night, tailor-made  (tailor-made), from £951pp, including return flights, airport taxes, car rental and accommodation. It also organises a climb of Mount Snaefell, including transfers from Egilsstadur and visits to hot pools afterwards (£216).  With its walking festivals and rural hotels, Tenerife has proved that there’s more to the largest Canary island than beach holidays. Its capital, Santa Cruz, has stayed off-radar, but that will change in July, with the release of the fifth Bourne movie. Much of the action was shot in the city, but while the film probably won’t linger on Santa Cruz’s emerging foodie scene, its soaring Auditorio opera house, or brightly painted historic buildings, visitors should. Those of a gastronomic persuasion will be particularly happy: , a contemporary Spanish restaurant, has just won a Michelin star, doubling the city’s stellar dining options. Our land may have been green and pleasant before Lancelot “Capability” Brown started rearranging its hills and lakes, but the UK’s most celebrated landscape gardener was so prolific – he is associated with 260 sites in England and Wales – that many of the landscapes we think of today as typically English are, in fact, typically Lancelot. In 2016, designated the , around 150 of the landscapes Brown designed will be open to the public, with organisations such as the National Trust and the Royal Horticultural Society contributing to a nationwide programme of events marking 300 years since his birth. Some of the sites will open specially for the occasion; others, such as Harewood House near Leeds, are upping their Capability credentials with events and exhibitions. True Brown aficionados could start with a pilgrimage to the small village of Kirkharle in Northumberland, where he was born. Brown discovered gardening here, learning his craft via an apprenticeship with the head gardener at Kirkharle Hall. Though it’s an unassuming site today (much of the hall was demolished in the 19th century, and the remaining wing was remodelled as a farmhouse), Brown’s plans for the parkland here were finally put into action in 2010 by the estate’s owners. The landscape now includes a serpentine lake around which visitors can stroll, and a children’s play area (complete with Capability-inspired serpentine sandpit). Find out more first by visiting an exhibition on Brown’s life in the area at the  and craft centre (also the hub for a Capability festival over the August bank holiday weekend), seeing the church where Brown was baptised, then carrying on north to , where he designed the landscape on its northern side. Move over Scandi chic. In 2016, Stockholm is all about Abba-influenced kitsch. The Eurovision final is being held in the Swedish capital in May, and before that, on 20 January, Abba’s Björn Ulvaeus is opening  at a refitted restaurant in the Gröna Lund amusement park. A kind of immersive Singalongversion of the musical, the concept is part Greek taverna and part stage show, with a bit of audience participation. Tickets are available for the show with dinner (from £105) or with overnight accommodation at  (from £196pp) which is also part-owned by Ulvaeus and in the same building as .  It has long been known for gastronomy, but this year San Sebastián is tempting visitors with a packed cultural programme. As the joint  (with Wrocław in Poland), its lineup of events include “guerilla lighting actions” to brighten the dark days of January; a music-box festival with gigs in unusual spaces; an art installation involving the city’s fountains; a “caravan of desires” full of erotica travelling through the streets; a Stop the War festival; and Sunday hikes. One appealing-sounding show is a performance of A Midsummer Night’s Dream in Cristina Enea Park, with live music and contemporary dance, preceded by an alfresco feast at dusk. Culture aside, the city’s highlights include a  (tapas) crawl around the bars of the old town or, at the other end of the spectrum, a Michelin-starred dinner – San Sebastián’s restaurants have 16 stars between them, including three three-star establishments – astonishing for a relatively small city. The best views are from the top of Mount Urgull. There is a fantastic city beach, Playa de la Concha, plus two surfing beaches, and the Paseo Nuevo is the place to stroll and watch the sunset.More than 100,000 fans from the UK and Ireland will travel to France for Euro 2016, which kicks off on 10 June in Paris, with the host facing Romania at the Stade de France. For supporters of Wales and Northern Ireland, it will be the first opportunity to support their side in 58 and 30 years respectively. England and Wales will meet in their opening group game, in the north-eastern city of Lens, home to the minimalist Louvre-Lens, an outpost of the Paris museum. Northern Ireland’s fans will no doubt be cheered to discover that their opening game will be a chance to sun themselves on the Med, as they play Poland in Nice. The Republic of Ireland head to Paris to take on Sweden. The tournament will be spread across 10 venues (Paris’s Stade de France and Parc des Princes, Marseille, Lyon, Lille, Lens, Bordeaux, Toulouse, Nice and Saint-Etienne), with the final at the Stade de France on 10 July. French rail operator  and the French tourist organisation  have guides to the host cities and train travel to them. Salt Lake City has its own attractions – The , , ’s architecture and tabernacle, and many more Mormon sites – but the best thing about the first direct flights to Utah’s capital, launching on 1 May with , is that the city is a leaping-off point to the . There are several stellar ski resorts in valleys within an hour or so’s drive, including , which hosts the  and is newly connected this season to the resort previously known as The Canyons: together, they form the US’s largest ski resort, with nearly 300 runs. There’s also chichi celeb haunt Deer Valley, where snowboarding is banned, newly opened , and cool, quirky little gems  and  – the latter’s backcountry terrain provides a steep introduction to the famous Utah powder. A road-trip tour of them all is a true western adventure, and easy to do (has packages). The snow-averse can explore the  south of the city – such as Bryce Canyon, Arches, Canyonlands and Zion.The Chianti wine region between Florence and Siena is 300 years old this year. Its wine is now regarded as Italy’s answer to bordeaux, with high-quality vintages offering spice, leather and tobacco notes. To mark three centuries of classic wines,  cycle race will take place in the Chianti hills: stage nine, on 15 May, will be a rolling 40km time trial through the region, starting in the ancient village of Radda, 29km north of Siena, and heading north to finish in Greve in Chianti. It’s a fantastically picturesque route, with, as Giro director Mauro Vegni gleefully points out, barely a metre of flat land. Make the most of it with a stay amid the vines at  (from €120 a night self-catering), a producer of high-quality wine from 40-year-old vines, right in the chianti classico golden triangle. Owners Roberto and Lis let a beautifully restored two-bedroom cottage with fantastic views over vineyards and olive groves to the mountains. From here it’s a five-minute drive or half-hour walk into the village for the start of the race.Yes, Poland’s fourth-largest city is a European capital of Culture in 2016 (along with San Sebastián in Spain). But call it Rock-law, and you’re not invited to the party. It’s pronounced Vrots-waf, and you’ve got until 17 January, when the official celebrations begin, to practise. Headline events for the city’s year in the spotlight are a series of 12 cultural weekends, starting with Awakening, a winter fiesta of exhibitions, concerts and a mass parade. The showstopper will be a performance on 23 February by prolific movie composer Ennio Morricone, with 200 choristers and musicians .But there’s another side to the city: the former “fortress of Solidarity” and the home of the 1980s Orange Alternative underground movement can be explored at the restaurant and historical education centre, the  and the former brewery . More pronunciations to get your head and lips around. “Puerto Rico you lovely island, island of tropical breezes …” sang Rosalia in West Side Story. It’s also an island of rum, palm trees, golden beaches, and a fascinating mix of US, Caribbean and Spanish cultures. And now it’s as easy to get to as anywhere in the Caribbean (and a lot cheaper than many destinations) since  launched direct flights from the UK to Puerto Rico’s capital, San Juan. They will run in the winter, from November to April, with returns from Gatwick from £338. Once there, visitors can explore over 500 years of history in atmospheric Old San Juan, plus nightlife as lively as anywhere in this party-loving region. Small, family-run guesthouses all over the island have doubles from about $80 or, for a bit of glitz, Hilton group hotels in San Juan () and overlooking the Caribbean in the east of the island () have great post-Christmas deals, with huge doubles from around $200, and all the pools, beach bars and entertainment you could wish for.Can you name a single ski jumper other than Eddie “The Eagle” Edwards? Thought not. As the first British ski jumper to take part in the winter Olympics, in Calgary in 1988, Eddie became a huge favourite with TV viewers and fans, for his determination and humour despite his relative lack of skill at the sport, glasses that fogged when he jumped, equipment that didn’t fit, and a 9kg weight disadvantage compared with the next-heaviest competitor. Though he was Britain’s best at the time, a stunt-jumping record holder and ranked ninth in the world in amateur speed skiing, he admitted he’d entered the Olympic ski jump category because no one else was going to apply. He originally wanted to compete in downhill events but didn’t have the funds to enter. As the worst in the competition, finishing last in the 70-metre and 90-metre events , he became an underdog hero. Now his story will take flight on the silver screen when it is released in April: Eddie the Eagle, produced by Matthew Vaughn, has Taron Egerton in the lead role, and Hugh Jackman playing a fictional coach training him on Lake Placid. If you’re inspired, visit Calgary’s Olympic park and adjoining ski hills (); or the  (daily tours from $11 adult, $8 junior) in Lake Placid; or the filming locations in the Bavarian ski resort of Oberstdorf. At this last location, visitors can try  (regular workshops around £117) or watch events at the . Garmisch-Partenkirchen to the east was another location: here  cost €10 adult, €8 child. There are various ski jumping courses for beginner eaglets too, including in , and  in Austria, and the  in Kuusamo, Finland.As part of its Year of Innovation, Architecture & Design, Scotland is holding a Festival of Architecture throughout 2016. Among the celebrations is the reopening of  in Cardross, Argyll, in March. Despite being one of Scotland’s most significant modernist buildings, it was abandoned in 1980, but sound and light installations will bring flickers of life to its remaining concrete columns before a two-year renovation project. Snoop through other normally closed keyholes via a  programme.A major new gallery is opening on the V&A Waterfront in Cape Town in late 2016. The  will be housed in the eye-catching, nine-storey, 1920s Grain Silo. Until then, a temporary pavilion will display selected highlights from the collection. Other attractions for art lovers include , when scores of galleries, especially those on and around Bree and Church Streets, stay open until 9pm or later on the first Thursday of the month.  runs guided tours, including visits to artists’ studios and a tour of street art in the Woodstock area. , also in Woodstock, holds art classes, including I Know Nothing for complete beginners. The  has a comprehensive collection of African art, as well as British, French and Dutch works.Fun new activities in Cape Town include the , monthly parties with a retro theme in Paarden Eiland; and  (bikes with wide tyres for cycling on sand) in De Kelders. South Beach is a new collection of nine stylish apartment suites in Camps Bay (from £103 a night, ), or for a stay with a difference, (doubles from £18) has recently reopened in Khayelitsha township.The city also offers excellent value – the second-cheapest long-haul destination (behind Bali), .  flies direct from Heathrow from £702 return. has a roller coaster history: it opened in 1872, boomed in the 1930s and hosted bands including the Rolling Stones in the 1960s and 70s. It closed in 2008 after being damaged by a storm, then was almost destroyed by fire in 2010. But it is about to get a new lease of life, reopening on 21 March after a massive transformation, thanks in part to a £11.4m Heritage Lottery grant. The new-look pier will host farmers’ markets, urban sports, outdoor cinema and gigs – plus more traditional seaside promenading. And there’ll be a grand opening party in May.Continued improvements in transport infrastructure mean visitors to China in 2016 can  more easily. Yunnan province, in the south-west, has a compelling trio of attractions: dramatic mountain landscapes, unusually well-preserved historic towns and an exciting food culture. One way to discover it is by exploring the Tea Horse Road, or Southern Silk Road. A network of ancient paths along which caravans of traders once travelled (including, as you might have guessed, tea merchants), it snakes through spectacular landscapes, from Sichuan and Yunnan through Tibet, and south to Bengal. From  hotels (doubles from about £100) in  – and later this month at , four hours’ drive north – visitors can hike mountain trails, forage for mushrooms, cross glaciers with a guide, and listen to monks chanting. Explore’s new 14-day  (departs 14 February, from £2,119 without flights or £2,989 with) takes in temples, markets, festivals and a walk through Tiger Leaping Gorge.Getting to Toronto this year will be a bargain if you can snap up the lowest of the new low-cost flights. Icelandic airline  is launching flights from Gatwick to Toronto (from 20 May) and Montreal (from 12 May) from £198 return: so cheap because they go via Reykjavik. (It will also offer low-cost transatlantic flights from Gatwick to Los Angeles and San Francisco later in the summer, fares to be confirmed.)And Canadian airline  will launch its first direct flights from the UK to seven Canadian cities (Toronto, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, Winnipeg, Edmonton, St John’s) from Gatwick on 6 May, with fares from £414 return.  has a new direct route from Glasgow to Toronto between 13 June and 25 September, from £400 return, as well as seven routes from Gatwick from May. Destination Canada’s Nim Singh says 2016 will be a good year for a visit, “as air fares will be lower than they have been in a while, and the exchange rate is more favourable than in the past few years”.For those who’ve done NYC, Toronto is a low-key alternative for a short transatlantic city break. Attractions include the expanded  (24 June-3 July) and a new venue for the Museum of Contemporary Canadian Art, or , in the heritage Tower Automotive Building. The latest hip neighbourhood is  , where cheap warehouse conversions are tempting artists and startups, leading to a flurry of vintage stores, pizza parlours, and organic and raw food outlets.History was made in Myanmar in November, when Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy , ending 50 years of military rule. Widespread celebrations followed and real change is now expected. While some areas remain off-limits for tourists, Mawlamyine in the south-east has a new, daily 45-minute flight from Yangon, with  airlines, opening up a remote area that was previously a seven-hour drive or a lengthy boat trip away from the country’s largest city. The fourth-largest town in the country, Mawlamyine has a picturesque port – the setting of George Orwell’s essay Shooting an Elephant – and is mentioned in the opening lines of Rudyard Kipling’s poem Mandalay. Easier access to the south also brings the picturesque town of Hpa An and the Myeik archipelago within reach. Several operators have new itineraries, including , a 15-night trip with time in Mawlamyine and Macleod Island, from £2,385pp, excluding flights.Since the collapse of the USSR 25 years ago, Georgia has emerged as a promising destination for off-the-beaten track adventure in a landscape of mountains and lakes. “Georgia is less crowded than much of Europe but offers much more bang for your buck. Flights are cheap and ’s route to Batumi makes access to the Caucasus mountains much easier,” says Imaginative Traveller’s Helen Youngman. New for 2016 is a 14-day , from £1,299pp. The capital, , is on a roll, with several new five-, four- and three- star hotels (the key one being a brand new Design Hotels property called ), revamped restaurants and a burgeoning hip wine bar revolution with the likes of  and tasting room showcasing Georgia’s famous viticulture. For culture buffs, the  reopened in December, having been closed for six years for renovations.The centenary of Dadaism, a radical art movement founded in Zurich in 1916, will draw art lovers to Switzerland’s principal metropolis, with a series of soirées at  (where the movement began) among the commemorations. Staying with art, the ninth  European contemporary art biennale, with seminars and exhibitions, will be held in Zurich in 2016, too. Best book early if you want to stay at hip new boutique hotel , (doubles from £170). Zurich is also, of course, a hit with skiers (there are 270 resorts within a three-hour drive) and, less obviously, swimmers (in summer a string of lidos open around the city’s lake).Having just been declared a  – and thereby joining 11 other cities including Edinburgh, Reykjavik, Dublin, Krakow and Melbourne – Nottingham will be a whirr of words in 2016. The city (and county) has links with DH Lawrence, Lord Byron and Alan Sillitoe, as well as 1974 Booker Prize winner Stanley Middleton and playwright and TV screenwriter William Ivory. is in October, and the city will continue to promote its “Rebel Writers” in an Arts Council-funded project,  and new writers via . Those who want a stroll with their literature can explore the city using an iPhone app of the , which focuses on places mentioned in Nottingham-set 1958 novel Saturday Night and Sunday Morning. More events will be announced through the year. The , in a listed Georgian townhouse, recently reopened after refurbishment (doubles from £122 B&B). Boston’s streets have staged plenty of history, whether it’s revolutionary riding and marching (and tea throwing) or celebrating – when the  – but that may not feel like any preparation when the drivers of IndyCar take over during the first . Over the Labor Day weekend (2-4 September) the event will feature live bands, family-friendly attractions and driver appearances, building up to Verizon’s IndyCar Series race on the Sunday. The racecourse is centred on the city’s fast-developing  (often referred to as the Seaport district, or Fort Point district), with its , historic warehouse buildings, and award-winning .The intention is for the event to run annually until 2020. Tickets have yet to go on sale, but for more information and updates see .If that’s not enough to rev your travel engines, consider the city’s famous marathon in April, the , its film festivals in April and September, the  in August and its book festival in October.And, while  is a city that’s relatively easy to reach, from May things will get even easier and a little more affordable. The low-cost airline  is to run flights from Gatwick to Boston four times a week, starting on 13 May. Fares on the route, which will use the 787 Dreamliner aircraft, will start from £179 one-way. It’s enough to make you spill your tea.In July, the release of Guy Ritchie’s latest film, Knights of the Roundtable, will prompt set-jetters to visit , where much of the film was shot. There will be themed underground boat rides through  – at Corris, in the south of Snowdonia – and  will be tailor-making King Arthur tours for groups in 2016, bringing to life the locations behind both the film and the legend. Snowdonia is also great adventure territory, with  at Penrhyn Slate Quarry, , and manmade waves at . The national park has international dark sky status, too, making it a top spot for star-gazers.</content>
<class_name>Summer holidays,Adventure travel,City breaks,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-01T07:00:25+0000</date>
<title>Where to go on holiday in 2016</title>
<content>, the troubled genius who gave us The Scream, an artist who made a living out of his own anxiety, actually spent much of his time in the tranquil coastal paradise of Åsgårdstrand. A steep town carved into Norway’s southern shore, it’s still the stuff of love affairs.Like Munch, I was seduced by its timber cabins, intoxicating gardens and tangible history. Mermaid figureheads from old ships now cling to people’s front porches, unmanned fruit stalls invite customers to pay into a trust box, bicycles lean up against walls, doors are left open. There is a potent sense of the past here, of a time when life was simpler. Åsgårdstrand is non-conformist, artistic and resilient. It has meandered through the years, but never been tempted to catch up with the rest of the world.Munch could barely afford this simple fisherman’s cabin when he bought it in 1897, but escaped to the rat-infested hut as often as he could. Today, the house is exactly as it was when he lived here (though perhaps without the rats). It’s popular with visitors in the summer, but it’s nothing like the tourist mecca of the . It’s an unassuming two-roomed shack at the side of the road, but gaze out from the back steps and the dazzling blue almost swallows you whole. The water in this place is something otherworldly, a sparkling expanse of fjord that drives you to a breathtaking silence.Not all Munch’s paintings were disturbing. In fact, many of his motifs from Åsgårdstrand are as sublime as the scenery that surrounded him. Perhaps this humble cabin, the only place he ever called home, brought him some much-needed serenity.</content>
<class_name>Norway holidays,Cultural trips,Europe holidays,Edvard Munch,Museums,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T16:30:04+0100</date>
<title>A serene escape for Scream painter Edvard Munch</title>
<content>talian and German cultures do not, as a rule, have many characteristics in common – as anyone who is interested in economics, food or football well knows. This dichotomy makes the Alpine region of South Tyrol an intriguing, Channel 4-style experiment. A geopolitical , if you like.A small, hilly place about twice the size of Kent, South Tyrol is an idyllic enclave of medieval castles, steepled churches, apple orchards and vineyards. An Austrian territory for eons, it has been an Italian province since the First World War, but no one seems to have told most of the half-million inhabitants. Today 70% of South Tyroleans speak German and another 5% have Ladin, a local dialect in the Dolomites, as their first language. Road signs offer you at least two, sometimes three variations, and when you walk into a shop there's always a moment of sizing up before you decide to go for a "Buongiorno", a "Guten Tag" or even a "Gruss Gott".As a holiday destination, it sends some mixed messages, too. Should you expect somewhere ordered and efficient, or chaotic and charming? Or would South Tyrol somehow have fatally assumed the more regrettable stereotypes of all its influences? You know, no sun loungers  waiters who try to sleep with your girlfriend.The good news is that South Tyrol has emerged blessedly unscathed from its traumatic parental tug of war. As a territory, it has always valued its independence: it has been run since 1948 by the South Tyrolean People's Party, which is free to assign 90% of all levied taxes. So while some aspects of life here are unmistakably Italian and others Germanic, it remains a place not quite like anywhere else in Europe.South Tyrol can seem a gnarly, impenetrable place to reach, existing entirely within the Alps sung with the Austrian border to the north and Switzerland to the west, and its landscape is defined by spiky peaks and dense forests. There are now road links from Innsbruck and Munich, but most British travellers fly to Verona and proceed north for a couple of hours by rail or hire car.This journey will be extended if you stay – as you must do – in the Pension Briol. This 13-room fairy-tale hotel is halfway up a volcanic mountain in the Dolomites, in the east of the region. First you have to reach Barbiano, a village high in the Isarco Valley; map readers be warned that there are multiple place names (here we will favour the Italian versions).At Barbiano you leave your transport in a car park and take one of two options for reaching Briol: either a punishing 15-minute taxi-jeep ride on a rocky path up the side of the mountain or an hour-long scenic walk through Alpine pastures and wildflower meadows.The advantage of arriving on foot is that the remarkable Briol slowly reveals itself through gaps in the trees. The mountain you are climbing is called Tre Chiese, named after three ancient churches, but is known locally as "the mountain of women". It was bought in the 19th century by Johanna Settari; she divided it up and handed it down to her 15 children (11 daughters and four sons). Settari laid down a few ground rules: most importantly, that the mountain should remain in the family and that development would be limited to simple, congruous structures. These wishes have been assiduously respected.Briol started off in 1898 as a Tyrolean mountain refuge, but was developed into its present form in the 1920s by Hubert Lanzinger. Obviously an admirer of the Bauhaus school of design, he set out to make "a temple to the sun" at 4,300ft. The result is a stunning modernist structure of brick and wood with large windows that allow you to peer down over Val Gardena and a mountain-water swimming pool.The guesthouse is run by Settari's great-granddaughter, Johanna von Klebelsberg, and her husband Urban, and staying at Briol feels (pleasantly) like stepping back in time. The elegant pine chairs and tables, crockery and cutlery were all designed by Lanzinger; the floorboards are spruce. There are no private bathrooms, just shared facilities on each floor and a white tin jug in your room. Dinner is announced by a cowbell, and you are brought three courses without being consulted on the menu. This is only a problem if you don't like dumplings and apricot tart; your sole decision is to pick wine from a list created by Urban, a vintner by trade. There are no TVs, just an old-fashioned games room – and don't even think about asking for a Wi-Fi password.I had heard that the von Klebelsbergs were working with acclaimed Swiss architect Peter Zumthor, the 2009 Pritzker prize laureate, on five wooden treehouses for Briol, but Johanna seemed almost embarrassed when I brought this up. She has known Zumthor for many years, long before his recent celebrity, and the idea of the retreat being overrun by architecture groupies made her deeply uncomfortable.Despite von Klebelsberg's protests, those with an interest in design are likely to be drawn to South Tyrol anyway. If you can bear to leave the cool and calm of Briol you can see an alternative vision of modernist living at Renon, the location of an example of a Fincube house. Fincubes are high-concept, low-energy homes built from wood and glass that are sustainable and transportable.In the region's capital, Bolzano, there is Museion, a modern and contemporary art museum housed, since 2008, in a futurist oblong cube. Nowhere is South Tyrol's intermingling of cultures more evident than in Bolzano, a small city with the German-speaking medieval centre on one side of the River Talvera and the predominantly Italian modern quarter on the other. Museion stands in the middle, and with its transparent facade it seems like it is uniting these two unlikely cultures. Like the rest of South Tyrol, it shouldn't work, but somehow it does.British Airways () flies twice daily from Gatwick to Verona from £90 return. Pension Briol () has rooms from €89.50 per person per night for half-board. For more information on the region of South Tyrol, visit </content>
<class_name>Italy holidays,Europe holidays,Cultural trips,Short breaks,Hotels,</class_name>
<date>2012-08-19T00:05:00+0100</date>
<title>South Tyrol: where Austria and Italy collide</title>
<content>n 29 March 1516, the Venetian Republic created the first ghetto on a small island in the north-western  of Cannaregio. The residents were removed and replaced within a week by Jews already in Venice. This was a period in which the city sought to keep a watchful eye on all foreigners: the French, English and Spanish embassies were also relegated to Cannaregio. There had been a metal foundry () in the parish, which has traditionally been the source of the name, although the etymology is far from clear. The French writer Alice Becker-Ho in her book  presents a number of valid alternatives: , separation and , herd.Jews within Venice therefore found a secure place to live despite the restrictions imposed on them, and were soon joined by others fleeing persecution in central Europe. They built two synagogues in the ghetto: the Schola Grande Tedesca and the . The pragmatic Venetian Republic later exploited the economic advantages of allowing Levantine Jews to settle there – charging the residents for rent, water, the cost of the compulsory nightwatchman and all services. The population was swelled by the arrival of Marrani Jews, expelled from Spain and Portugal when they refused to convert. As the reputation of the ghetto spread, the population (about 700 in 1516) grew, and when the English traveller Thomas Coryat visited in 1608, he recorded as many as 6,000 inhabitants. The Ghetto Vecchio (old ghetto, though it was newer than the original) and later the Ghetto Novissimo were added to accommodate the growing population.Living conditions were cramped and insanitary. Rooms could be reached only through other families’ living space. The gates were unlocked at dawn and locked by sunset and all residents were required to wear yellow headgear or a badge. In what was, for a time, a tolerant Venice, Jews were not forced to convert and the ghetto became a place of study and scholarship; money-lending and the sale of some goods, such as jewellery and fur, was allowed. Christians attended concerts in the ghetto, and Christian architects and builders created synagogues. This Jewish melting pot had a lasting cultural impact on Venetian language, cuisine, music and dance.By 1797 disease, war and politics had shrunk the population of the ghetto to 3,000. Napoleon’s troops brought an end to the Republic of Venice and to the ghetto; they burned down the gates, and French principles of liberty, equality and fraternity allowed the ghetto’s inhabitants at last to be free and equal. The poorest Jews remained in the ghetto, but many others left for other parts of the city, where they integrated, buying palaces on the Grand Canal and taking part in political life. Some contributed actively to the fight against Austrian occupation.Race laws in Italy in 1938 affected the Jewish community dramatically. Jews were barred from the Lido beach, and dangerous discrimination began. After German troops arrived in 1944, Venetian Jews of all ages were gathered in the ghetto’s central  and from there deported. Most of them never returned. A monument now commemorates this shameful event. Its seven bronze reliefs are dedicated to the six million victims of the Holocaust. It is the work of , a Lithuanian Jew. The panels are mounted on a wall below the barbed wire left by the Germans. An eighth panel, The Last Train, stands alone, inscribed with the names of the deported Venetian Jews. There are roughly six hundred Jews in Venice today; those in the ghetto include the residents of the Casa di Riposo, a home mainly for elderly Jews.There will be a public exhibition at the  from 19 June to 13 November entitled Venice, the Jews and Europe 1516-2016. On 19 June  orhcestra will give a concert entitled Music Without Borders. The , on the main campo, will host an exhibition, Peggy Guggenheim in Photographs, from 9 June to 9 October. The  will be open to visitors and  planned restoration of the Jewish Museum will allow access to the Italian synagogue. After looking at the powerful monument commemorating Jewish deportation , visitors can walk around the Ghetto Vecchio with its two striking Levantine and Spanish synagogues and finish in the Ghetto Novissimo. The wealthy Spanish Jews built their synagogue in the Ghetto Vecchio with its entrance at ground level. It has a beautiful interior with a carved pulpit and rich decoration, but visits can only be arranged through the Jewish Museum (see below). There is a little bridge crossing the canal between the original Ghetto Nuovo and the Ghetto Vecchio, from where local gondola tours can be arranged with the resident gondoliers. There is a helpful information point next to the new  (which serves Venetian specialities).Two synagogues were built on the upper floors of what is now the museum, founded in 1953, with a bookshop and cafe. Precious objects are on display but it also offers guided tours in various languages, including visits to some synagogues.  The only remaining of the first three banks in the world (and the origin of the expression ‘to be in the red’) is worth a visit. There you can read a short history of the ghetto and early banking. You can eat inside and outside at ,  and Banco Rosso restaurants; they serve pizza and typical Venetian dishes. For Jewish food try  restaurant-patisserie: it has a pleasant terrace by the Cannaregio canal. The lunchtime meze menu is good and cheap, but it is wise to book. For the full experience  (Pomegranate Garden) specialises in kosher, vegetarian and vegan cuisine and will also have fish on its menu. It has a large garden and has recently added a hotel.The old bakery, , sells local bread and biscuits. Diego Baruch Fusetti’s  deals in Jewish religious objects and  sells traditional items made of Murano glass, such as Hanukkah lamps. Denis Dittura at makes soft-leather bags and purses and still repairs bags and shoes, a rare thing in Venice these days. Aboaf Enzo at the Stamperia del Ghetto sells, among other things, black-and-white prints of the old ghetto.* </content>
<class_name>Venice holidays,Heritage
(Travel),Cultural trips,Italy holidays,Europe holidays,Heritage
(Culture),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T06:30:22+0100</date>
<title>500 years of the Venetian ghetto: commemoration and history</title>
<content>n previous years, if there was one thing that could put you off having a summer holiday in , it was the crowds. People tell you that spring or autumn are the best times to go – the temperature is soothingly balmy, and you can find a spot at the beach/ancient ruins/restaurant without too much trouble. But this year, big crowds are unlikely to be a problem at any time.The country has been rocked by terrorist attacks , with several particularly  this year alone, and unsurprisingly tourism is being affected. According to one survey, visitor arrivals in February were more than . Summer is looking worse. Thomas Cook says there has been a “marked shift in demand, with significantly lower bookings” to Turkey. The travel company Tui reported a . According to the market research company GfK, overall there has been a 32% drop in the number of summer bookings to Turkey (last year, bookings to the country grew 11%). , tour operators have cut capacity and some, such as Mark Warner, .Suicide bombers targeted the capital Ankara in  and  – the attacks were claimed by TAK, a Kurdish nationalist group. Two attacks on Istanbul (which tourists are more likely to visit) in  and  were blamed on Islamic State. The  against travel to the south-east of the country, near the borders with Iraq and Syria. It says “further attacks are likely”, and acknowledges tourists could be targets, but it advises only vigilance, not staying away, for the rest of the country.“I wouldn’t advise people to stay away, but I would advise them to make themselves aware of the reality of the threat,” says Henry Wilkinson, the head of intelligence and analysis at the . In the past 12 months, his company has recorded 258 terrorist attacks in Turkey, “but the vast majority have occurred in the south-eastern provinces where there is an active PKK [outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ party] insurgency and cross-border activity. So far, we haven’t seen tourist resorts targeted as we did in 2006.” Between June and August 2006, five bomb attacks on tourist resorts in south-western Turkey killed seven people.An Isis-inspired attack on tourists at the beach, similar to the , in which 38 people died, is “certainly possible”, he says. “Islamic State has demonstrated that it is willing to target tourist resorts. It recognises that tourism is a particularly vulnerable point in the economy.”Still, it is worth remembering that more than 2.5 million Britons visit Turkey every year. Although the bombings in Istanbul were attempts to hit public spaces, where foreigners were likely to be present, Wilkinson says: “You would have much greater cause for concern [for your safety] if you were in the security forces or military, or were in politics.” As a tourist, he says, “the likelihood of being caught up in an attack is relatively low”.</content>
<class_name>Turkey holidays,Turkey,Islamic State,Kurds,Middle East and North Africa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T16:31:11+0100</date>
<title>Is it safe to go on holiday to Turkey?</title>
<content>A guided walk is the quick and easy way to learn lots about a place but at €10-€20pp the cost can soon rack up, particularly for a family. Guiding yourself keeps the price down and lets you choose your own pace. The Ruta del Modernisme winds through the city linking more than 100 examples of Catalonia’s famed take on art nouveau. You could be cheap and read descriptions of buildings from the ruta’s rather clunky website, but the accompanying guidebook is only €12 and gets you a discounted entry to many sights. All the biggies, such as Gaudí’s Sagrada Família and the Palau de la Música Catalana by Lluís Domènech i Montaner are on the ruta but you can search out the work of lesser-known architects, . As in many other cities, a new type of tour has taken off in Barcelona in the last few years. Tours are “free” – you just give your guide what you think is a fair tip at the end. Simple. But are they any good? I tried half a dozen tours of the Gothic Quarter and soon felt like Phil Connors in Groundhog Day. Most of the tours were average and one was spectacularly bad – it took us nearly an hour to actually get to the Gothic Quarter and, no, I don’t want to buy a ticket for your tapas tour and, no, George Orwell wasn’t shot in Barcelona. But I’d heartily recommend a couple. I expected to take against Sandemans New Europe because it’s a bit of a corporate behemoth but my guide, Leon, was brilliant. I also loved the passion of Laura from Travel Bound. You can’t fail to notice the city’s obsession with the spray can; every metal shop shutter in the Raval, just off the Ramblas, seems to be covered in designs. But I hadn’t seen anything until I walked the barrio with Dominic, who spent his teenage years leaving his mark on commuter trains in Sydney. He taught me about tagging, throw-ups and stencilling, and showed me the work of famous street artists such as El Gordo (fat guys with square faces on tiles) and BCN Cans (cans sprayed with a letter then stuck together to spell out messages such as “Tonight the streets are ours”). A squad of city workers armed with paint brushes polices the streets to wipe out graffiti but they’re fighting a losing battle. The food scene in the district of Poble Sec at the foot of Montjuic hill is hotter than a guindilla pepper. I have some favourite places, such as , but put myself into the hands of the experts to discover more. Barcelona Eat Local’s tour, unusually, started in the morning but that did mean we got to sample great  (salt cod) in the market and visit a wine shop owned by a cava producer for a glass at noon before patatas bravas (probably the best I’ve ever had) and jamón in a very trad restaurant, and then Ferran Adrià’s favourite lunch stop – the king of molecular gastronomy apparently loves old-school offal. The Barcelona Taste tour is in the evening and we ate spectacularly well, from anchovies in a modern tapas bar to octopus in an Argentinian-run joint and Szechuan fish in a place that epitomises Poble Sec right now. These tours are undoubtedly expensive but they include all food and drink and are a world away in quality from the €15 old town tapas tours. Dragons, giants, pooing peasants – and sweets. What’s not for a child to like on Runner Bean’s Kids and Family tour? I borrowed four, aged four-12, and we set off with guide Ann-Marie. She enthralled the kids with the  illustrated with her own drawings. There were games, puzzles and jokes as we wandered the Gothic Quarter learning a bit of history. The children loved the tale of how Saint George (Catalonia’s patron saint) slayed the dragon and saved the princess and visiting the workshop where giant figures are made for the city’s many festivals. They were a bit uncertain about singing Ann-Marie’s version of the Catalan song about  and looked appalled when she pulled out . Who can blame them? The tour finished at a shop making artisan candy. Sweet. A group of young architects are behind Barcelona Architecture Walks and I signed up for their Barcelona and the Future City stroll. Plaça de les Glòries Catalanes was to be the new centre of Barcelona in its 19th-century expansion but it ended up little more than a vast, unlovely traffic junction. The square is now a building site as the city authorities try to rescue this space. Guide Jordi explained some of the theories of urban planning – keeping within a beginner’s comprehension/boredom level – before we walked by some of the new buildings here, such as  and the . A fascinating glimpse into an architect’s world and the challenges of imagining a city’s future. I always pick up my camera with a heavy heart, imagining that it stops me from just seeing stuff. That’s probably why my photographs are so terrible, and why Fran from Foto Ruta Barcelona had his work cut out. Our small group met in the Born and Fran explained a few basics: light, perspective, the rule of thirds (about composition) and encouraged us to experiment. I didn’t lie on the pavement like one of the group to get a pug’s view of street life but I did snap away at shapes, colours and details. Days later I still found myself looking at familiar streets in a new way. We compared photographs at the end and mine were by far the worst – but, gulp, here’s one (above). There are reckoned to be at least 3,000 people living on the city’s streets but they can be almost invisible to tourists. Hidden City Tours was set up by a Brit to employ, as guides, people who have been on the streets. Former taxi driver Jaume led me on the new Street Life tour amid the Raval, taking me through an average day in the life of a homeless person, from where to sleep (a park in summer, a bank’s cashpoint lobby in winter) and how to keep clean (library washrooms) to how to make money (blowing giant soap bubbles) and where to eat (for example, one of Barcelona’s poshest hotels delivers a giant free paella each Thursday to soup kitchen . Jaume is now off the streets and back working as a driver as well as guiding.  Montjuïc hill has always offered a splash of green in this densely packed city. Biologist Mónica is charming and passionate and took me on a fascinating nature tour of this hulk of rock. It moved from descriptions of flora and fauna – such as how the uniform weight of the seeds of carob trees, found on Montjuïc, are the basis for the carat – to explanations of how nature has affected the look of Barcelona. For example, we stopped at an oleander shrub and Mónica showed how Antoni Gaudí used the unusual structure of a stalk as the model for the columns of the Sagrada Família. She also found time to bring in social history, explaining how the hill was once covered in shanty towns, housing a fifth of the city’s population in the 1960s. Mónica’s partner Nick does a great . I stooped through a little door in a dark, narrow street behind the cathedral and back to the fourth century. This is the only remaining synagogue in what was once a thriving Jewish community, which lasted from Roman times to the 15th century. More than 10% of the city’s 40,000 population in the 14th century was Jewish, all squeezed into a few streets. Jon, from New Jersey, walked us round their barrio, explaining how Jews played a key role in the life of the city; the doctors, lawyers and fixers of their time. The Catalan kings loved the taxes they paid and protected them – until they let the Inquisition have its fun. Jews were expunged from history; street names were Christianised and headstones from the Jewish cemetery were ripped up and used in new buildings – you can still see them on a wall near the cathedral. </content>
<class_name>Barcelona holidays,Walking holidays,Catalonia holidays,Spain holidays,Europe holidays,Top 10s,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T06:30:06+0100</date>
<title>Top 10 Barcelona walking tours</title>
<content>ith sex, action and opulent settings, spy drama  has been a hit for the BBC: it cost around £3m per episode, but each one has pulled in some eight million viewers. Danish director Susanne Bier said in a Radio Times interview: “It was deliberate to make it very sexy. The story takes place in a very lavish world – the world of Richard Roper – and part of the excitement is that Jonathan Pine, and the audience, get sucked into this world.”Based on John le Carré’s 1993 novel about an arms dealer, adapted and updated to be based on the Arab spring, the plot in brief is that former British soldier Jonathan Pine (Tom Hiddleston) is recruited by intelligence officer Angela Burr (Olivia Colman) to get inside the inner circle of arms dealer Richard Roper (Hugh Laurie). From there, it all gets very shadowy.But the glamorous locations in which the murky plot plays out are manna for setjetters. And the travel industry has been quick to take advantage, with companies including Tripadvisor’s  promoting stays in towns viewers will have gazed at in the show. The drama draws to a close this weekend, so fans in the early stages of withdrawal can plan to follow in the footsteps of the show’s stars – from Mallorca to Marrakech and the Matterhorn.Like the plot of The Night Manager, the filming featured all sorts of subterfuge. Cairo wasn’t visited at all and instead, the Es Saadi riad in Marrakech plays the Egyptian hotel (the Nefertiti), where Pine is night manager and outside which demonstrations kick off in episode one. The riad is overlooked by the Atlas mountains and set in 20 acres of gardens, with pool, spa and hammam. Morocco is always popular with filmmakers because of tax breaks and the fact that it can “portray” any number of locations – it even doubled for Tehran in Homeland. Rooms in April can cost up to £200 – but those without Roper’s cash can pop into the bar for a mint tea. Jonathan Pine is working in another luxurious hotel, in Zermatt, when he first meets Roper. Meisters Hotel doesn’t exist, but the views of the Matterhorn were filmed at the famous Riffelalp Resort 2222, which is named for its altitude and can only be reached by the . Cosy wood-panelled rooms with giant TVs don’t come cheap here – a two-night weekend in April comes in just shy of £990. But the views, as they say, are priceless – and free, if you just want to come up for a wander around. Pine and Burr’s first meeting was filmed in the restaurant of Chalet Hotel Schönegg in Zermatt. This hospitable little pine-clad place, with oversized pitched roofs, has four stars and great Matterhorn views. Pine and Burr also take a trip on the scenic Matterhorn Gotthard Bahn railway (). Pine leaves Roper’s mansion for a trip out with Roper’s son, Daniel, and takes the opportunity to have a clandestine meeting with Burr. The street where Pine and Burr meet is Carrer de la Marina, the corniche that runs along the sea front in Port de Soller. This postcard-perfect port town is in the north of Mallorca and, if you squint, you might see Roman Abramovich’s yacht moored off the coast because the area has been colonised by the super rich. Never mind. Grab an ice-cream at an outdoor table at Domenico, a little pizza parlour at number 44, that also does great gelato. Apparently, the orange flavour is not to be missed.Fishy goings on are ten a penny in The Night Manager, but possibly the fishiest of all is the dinner that evil arms dealer Richard Roper hosts for his overblown entourage at the Ca’s Patró March restaurant in Cala Deià, northern Mallorca. This restaurant – serving grilled seafood platters and Mallorcan Nou Nat chardonnay – is on a cliff above a small cove and likes to attract the  – which is why you won’t find a website. The terrace where Roper and one of his inner circle, Sandy Langbourne, talk dirty deeds is played by the luxurious Maricel Hotel and Spa – “one of the most emblematic and prestigious hotels on the island”, according to its website, with  interiors, and an excellent bar. Thursday night is jazz night, so non-residents can pop in for a cocktail (about £8). It is in Calvià, just south west of Palma – follow the signs for Magaluf, basically, but if you hit Del Boy’s Pub, you’ve gone too far. Far too far. The church where Burr quizzes lawyer Juan Apostol (Antonio de la Torre) is supposed to be in Madrid but is in fact the Gothic bulk of Iglesia de Santa Eulalia in Palma, whose architecture is as typically Spanish as a plate of garlic prawns. The 13th-century church, with tall spire and huge windows, was massively restored in the 1800s. The square outside – and the building – are free to look round. Walk south from Palma’s main square, Plaça Major.Jonathan Pine’s home when he goes under cover as Jack Lindon is , in the grounds of 12th-century Hartland Abbey, which is actually the “cherished home” of Sir Hugh and Lady Angela Stucley. The Stucleys haven’t been shy about  – but then, if you owned a cottage that had been in Sense and Sensibility and The Night Manager, would you be coy? It is on the north Devon coast, near Bideford, but the  passes by, if you want to have a peek on the cheap. The place where Pine gets steamy with Roper’s girlfriend Jed Marshall (Elizabeth Debicki) is the Son Julia Hotel near Llucmajor, south-east of Palma. Dating from the 15th century, with Arabian gardens, it has had a recent makeover with handmade carpets and local art. There’s a terrace with a grill and no fewer than three pools. This hotel also doubles for one that’s supposed to be in Istanbul in the scene where Pine talks to Rob Singhal (Adeel Akhtar). Enjoy a couple of G&Ts in the bar for under a tenner. You don’t have to go too far to scope out locations from The Night Manager. Some filming took place in London. Parts of the show were shot by the Thames on Millbank in Pimlico, where Burr and Joel Steadman discuss hoodwinking MI6 to protect Pine. The neo-classical  on Bloomsbury Square in central London, was decked out to look like the Foreign Office, and another location was the  in Southwark Street, south London – whose interiors doubled for MI6’s HQ in Vauxhall. The Blue Fin is actually full of journalists working for Time Inc magazines, such as Marie Claire and NME. There’s a cafe on the ground floor of this building where anyone can grab a cup of tea.</content>
<class_name>Mallorca holidays,Cultural trips,Spain holidays,Switzerland holidays,London holidays,Devon holidays,Morocco holidays,Europe holidays,Hotels,The Night Manager,United Kingdom holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T07:00:08+0100</date>
<title>I spy: on location with The Night Manager</title>
<content>In Thailand there are many places to eat good seafood but, for me, one of the best and cheapest and freshest is a small active fishing village at the foot of Khoa Takieb (Chopstick Mountain) in Hua Hin, with the native macaques looking on. There are many small restaurants along the town’s main street, with tanks of live fish, prawns and crabs, shellfish. For me, the real draw is the , a prehistoric creature that scientists call a living fossil as it’s over 450 million years old. The Thais prepare this as a typically spicy salad, made with the eggs of the crab, and serve it in the alien-like shell. To order in Thai , ask for  or . If the crab isn’t to your taste there are many other great things on offer, such as grilled scallops with garlic.For a dessert with a difference, head to Thailand and try stir-fried ice-cream. Wander along any street in Phuket and you are likely to come across a street-food vendor, super-chilled pan at the ready, to create whatever concoction your heart desires. Milk is poured into the pan where it is stirred and mixed as it freezes, with your choice of flavourings, such as green tea, nuts, syrup or chocolate thrown in. You’ll be presented with a perfect frozen cone of ice-cream in under a minute; delightfully different and delicious!Each province in Thailand has its speciality dish, and Nakhonratchasima is known for its hot and spicy palate. The classic green papaya salad, , is made in Korat with a taste that can’t be found in any other province.  (salted fish) is a typical sight at street-food vendors, and you can get the region’s own take on pad thai, known as .Avoid the main hub of Sukhumvit Road and head to Phra Khanong to this renowned boat-noodle cafe. Boat noodles are pork and beef-topped noodles in a thick, simmering broth. The ramshackle wooden shop in a non-descript mall doesn’t look like much – but it’s a delight. The locals chow down on this and I had seconds. Make sure you get the pork crackling, too.Worth the hair-raising walk down unlit, pavement-free Soi 81 is the relocated On Nut night market, and right by the entrance on the left is a street-food stall serving a tangy, steaming  soup full of lemongrass, galangal and, importantly for me, oodles of vegetables. All of the flavour, none of the meat. The stall also serves a veggie green curry which is equally delicious, and chicken/shrimp for meat eaters. Curry and rice for under £1.20!I remember being upset on the days when this street food kitchen was not open (Sundays and Mondays). It’s been two years since I left the land of smiles and this is what I miss the most. Go to the very end of Sukhumvit Soi 11, look for the homemade barbecues, grab a beer and grab a seat. Here, £1.20 buys the most succulent pieces of chicken marinated in the chef’s secret sauce, which he refuses to share (trust me, I tried), barbecued until the meat simply falls off the bone. Combine this with a green papaya salad and their daughter’s own dipping sauce and you have a true Thai street-food experience leaving you searching for their kitchen the next day. Between the biker bars, long-haired ex-pat dives and hemp-scented hippies on Pai’s main drag, a small, bamboo lean-to serves perhaps the best pad thai in the country. Ready in seconds, the food is cooked up by a crooked granny with a perennial smile. Noodles toss and sizzle in the pan and the smells of fresh lime, crushed peanut and chilli waft into the night market air. When it’s ready, retire to one of the laid-back gardens lining the Pai river, with swinging hammocks and tropical birds – the perfect soundtrack to a perfect Thai meal!Just feet from a quiet corner of Ao Nang beach, in Krabi province, the Seahorse is the perfect place to unwind after a day diving in search of its namesake. The tiny restaurant serves authentic homemade food with a smile. Settle among the cushions with a Chang beer or a fresh fruit smoothie. If you’re looking for the best massaman in Thailand, look no further: the flavours are rich and the spices perfectly balanced. When you find yourself back again the next day, try the chicken sandwiches. In a side street of Ao Nang, we found a real hidden gem. Troy’s Pad Thai Thaifood Restaurant is a small venue with only four tables. It’s not spectacular at first sight but, as soon as you’re served your dinner, you will know better! The food here was some of the best we have tried in Asia! Even simple dishes, such as sweet-and-sour chicken, become a true revelation. Guests from all over the world have written their appreciation on the walls.Addy’s Happy Smoothies looks like somewhere a gap-year backpacker would go to discuss ukulele strings. And it is – but it’s also the home of the loveliest lady in Chiang Mai and her team of teenage helpers. Go for the delicious smoothies, by all means. But don’t leave before trying her criminally under-famous fruit salad: a medley of mango, dragon fruit, banana, strawberries, watermelon, passion fruit and avocado – all from Somphet market, directly opposite. She’ll then dollop over a pot of natural yoghurt, add a few handfuls of muesli, and top it all off with a generous drizzle of honey. Heaven – for about 50p.</content>
<class_name>Thailand holidays,Food and drink,Bangkok holidays,Restaurants,Asia,Thai food and drink,Food & drink,Street food,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T11:52:44+0000</date>
<title>Thailand's best street food: readers’ travel tips</title>
<content>rt nouveau was the curvilinear, nature-inspired style that dominated everything from jewellery to architecture at the start of the 20th century. As it spread throughout Europe and across the Atlantic it followed two main strands: the curvy, whiplash decoration that flowed out of Paris-Brussels and the more linear, geometric style seen in Vienna and Glasgow. East European centres such as Prague, Riga and Budapest merged art nouveau with their own local traditions and the outstanding buildings of the era are found in those cities. By 1915, the craze for art nouveau had been crushed by the advent of the first world war and the arrival of a new style, art deco.Over the last 100 years the demolition of art nouveau structures has been ruthless. French architect Hector Guimard’s innovative Parisian concert hall was pulled down as early as 1905 and only three of his roofed entrances to the Paris metro remain. While Barcelona, Vienna, Munich and Subotica claim stunning yet isolated art nouveau buildings, other cities have managed to preserve the style as part of their dominant architectural heritage.Prague’s art nouveau credentials are based around one man: . Ironically, he barely set foot in his Czech homeland until the style was waning. Mucha’s sassy artwork was used to advertise cigarette papers, champagne and Sarah Bernhardt plays, and propelled him (reluctantly) to the forefront of the movement. While Mucha was away in Paris and the US, it was left to architects, Ohmann, Bendelmayer and Dryák to promote Prague’s art nouveau and they did so by combining floral motifs and looping metalwork with a more traditional neo-baroque look. The  (rooms from €125 a night) was one of the city’s first art nouveau structures and is still open for business today. As for Mucha, there’s a , his symbolist murals adorn the , and the  nearby is where he painted a series of giant works about the Slav people.Art nouveau in Budapest took slightly different turns to the styles prevalent in other European cities. Ödön Lechner, regarded as the greatest of the period’s Hungarian architects, adopted oriental forms including delicate floral imagery and lacquered finishes to his minarets (using local tiles) as a nod to the Asiatic origins of the Magyar people. The roof of his  resembles a Persian textile. Lechner’s , the  and school on Dob Utca are typical of the merging of the sinuous early art nouveau with Hungarian national romantic traditions. It is celebrated at the , which has a coffee shop on the ground floor. Stay at the  (rooms from €330 a night), overlooking the Danube, which is named after the founder of London’s Royal Exchange and with 179 bedrooms is one of the largest art nouveau buildings in the world.With less whiplash, less decorative ornamentation, less feathery flamboyance and naturalistic carving, Glasgow offers a different form of art nouveau. Charles Rennie Mackintosh’s designs are celebrated for their elegance, geometry and angularity and with his wife Margaret Macdonald, her sister Frances and Herbert MacNair, together known as “The Four”, was commissioned to design the architecture and interior furnishings of a handful of buildings in and around Glasgow. At that time, the city was a thriving yet grubby shipbuilding port, so the moneyed class would have welcomed the temperance of the  in Sauchiehall Street. Mackintosh and Macdonald turned Glasgow’s tearooms into salons of taste using a refined, linear style, touches of Japonism, purples, creams and leaded-glass decoration. Other art nouveau buildings include  and the  – , it is planned to reopen in 2018.A vision of speed and flowing movement was fundamental to the designs established in art nouveau and its era coincided with the firing up of the Italian automobile industry. Fiat (1899) and Lancia (1906) started production in the back streets of Turin. Fiat’s original blue-floral logo and Lancia’s whiplash (characteristic curves), twirling lettering were typical of the movement’s regard for dynamism. Italians termed their own variation of art nouveau Stile Liberty, and after Turin’s international exhibition of decorative arts in 1902, the city was its undisputed capital. Visit the  on Corso Dante and then go to Borgo Pô to see some Stile Liberty villas: architect Pietro Fenoglio’s  and Villa Scott (both 1902), the  on Via Passalacqua and, best of all,  on Corso Montevecchio, which has flamboyant, double-tiered balcony railings and a semi-naked woman riding an eagle stuck onto the facade.  King Leopold II’s beautification of a vibrant Brussels in the late 19th/early 20th century coincided with the spectacular emergence of art nouveau. Belgian architects Victor Horta, Henry van de Velde and Paul Hankar created buildings where new techniques in manufacturing meant an end to conventional room space, where the underlying structure was often exposed and light could enter through glass roofs onto botany-inspired ironwork, gold mosaics and wavy door handles. , completed in 1894, is considered Europe’s first true art nouveau building. It’s the perfect place to start a tour, followed by the , , Square Ambiorix, the  and the , before ending at the  via the , all important art nouveau buildings. Diehard fans should take a peek at , too, but Josef Hoffmann’s masterpiece is still occupied by the Stoclet family and not open to the public.Three of the biggest names in art nouveau, Gallé, Daum and Majorelle had their glassware and furniture manufacturing plants in Nancy. They were part of a dynamic and artistic business culture that had its origins in the annexation of Alsace-Lorraine to Germany after the Franco-Prussian war (1870-71) when artists, intellectuals and industrialists fled to Nancy. Forty years on, their offspring were enjoying long lunches under the sculpted ferns and stained-glass windows of the . Today, the 1911-built cafe is the centrepiece of Nancy’s art nouveau design with a full assortment of teased ironwork, ornate mouldings, copper sconces and the combination of rare woods and handcarved masonry, which came to be associated with the movement. Take a stroll alongside the pretty, coloured facades of the rue Félix Faure with their intertwined plant designs and embellished lettering. Other art nouveau gems include the , the Chambre de Commerce, Graineterie, the  and villas in the Saurupt estate. Art nouveau buildings tend to be dotted around urban centres but in Darmstadt, 30km south of Frankfurt, there is an entire colony. It was the brainchild of Grand Duke Ernst Ludwig von Hessen, the province’s ruler (and Queen Victoria’s grandson), who commissioned seven artists and architects to design and build private houses and workshops in the modern Jugenstil vein at Mathildenhöhe, on a hill above the city. His artists’ colony opened in 1899, each building a complete work of art, inside and out. But after the colony’s final exhibition in 1914, it began to dissolve. Artists departed, the Wedding Tower and Exhibition Buildings left empty. Today, visitors can roam around the Vortex garden and visit some of the refurbished buildings and a permanent exhibition in the . The colony is also a reminder of how uninspiring architecture has become in the “modern” Darmstadt next door.Riga has over 700 art nouveau buildings, more than any other European city. The movement’s golden age coincided with the city’s rapid economic growth and within three years of the industrial and handicraft exhibition of 1901, art nouveau had become the only style of construction. One of the main streets, Alberta iela, has rows of Jugendstil houses. Designed by Mikhail Eisenstein, the Amphora building on Elizabetes iela is a showcase of art nouveau with floral motifs, stained glass, sky-blue tiles, sculpted knockers, peacocks and stern female faces peering out of the top floor. The other great architect of the period was Konstantins Pēkšēns, whose former home is now the , where staff wear period costume. Nearby is the (makslas kafejnica) on Streinieku iela, with its elegant drawing room complete with floral-design crockery, screens, chandeliers and large sugary desserts.When art nouveau ideas began to be incorporated into Nordic architecture, Finland was planning its independence from Russia. This sense of anticipated liberation led to a strong desire to include authentic Finnish traditions and rural mythology in a national romantic style. Art nouveau quickly became the country’s architectural redeemer and there are still around 600 buildings in Helsinki, many built from solid granite. The Wilkman House,  and the stock exchange all display the characteristic rough-hewn facades combined with Finnish flora and fauna. The , designed in 1909 and with two pairs of grim-faced statues lighting up the street outside, is the most celebrated building in the city. Visit the , constructed as a banking hall in 1904, for live music and to gaze at the tree murals over a fish soup.Halfway between Porto and Coimbra, Aveiro is a floating city full of art nouveau treasures. Aveiro’s economy still comes from seaweed, salt and ceramics, and it was the revenue from these, plus the wealth of returning emigrants who had grown rich in Brazil at the end of the 19th century, that led to requests for extravagant new residences. Take a tour on one of the gondola-style  to the Rossio district; try the local  delicacies in one of the bars where Aveiro’s particular style of  includes pale-shaded tiles, ironwork balconies and floral mouldings.  is in the Casa Major Pessoa on Rua Dr Barbosa Magalhães and its first-floor tearoom, the Casa de Chá, turns into a cocktail lounge serving caipirinhas in the evening – its floral designs and tiled birdlife motifs masked by mood lighting after dark.</content>
<class_name>Cultural trips,Europe holidays,City breaks,Heritage
(Travel),Top 10s,Architecture,Heritage
(Culture),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T06:30:08+0100</date>
<title>10 of the best European cities for art nouveau</title>
<content>I’ve eaten the most rarefied meals of my life in Japan, but it’s hard to beat the charms of a £2 portion of takoyaki – fluffy balls of eggy batter studded with boiled octopus, ginger and spring onion – in a polystyrene tray. These are anointed with takoyaki sauce (Japan’s answer to HP) and mayonnaise, then sprinkled with dried pink bonito (skipjack tuna) flakes, which writhe in the heat emanating from the molten core. You spear each ball with a notched cocktail stick and nibble while trying to avoid singing your lips. It’s like eating mouthfuls of octopus-flavoured cloud. Osaka invented them, but you can find them pretty much everywhere in Japan. Among the best are the ones served in ’s , where you buy a ticket from a vending machine before placing your order with the cook juggling the golden balls.You need a good-luck talisman (and some instructions printed from the internet) to find Shoraian, hidden in the glorious Arashiyama mountains to the west of Kyoto. To reach it I followed the jade waters of the Hozu river, then took a steep path into the forest to a lonely hillside clearing with a wooden house, which seems to belong in a fairytale. Shoraian’s fame rests on its tofu-based menu. It sounds ascetic, but this is Japan, where simplicity means invention and elegance. All its tofu is made in-house, which results in something completely unlike the stuff packaged in supermarkets. We ate in a room overlooking the river and shaded by rustling trees. We chose the cheapest of the set menus, at around £25 per head (lunch is always a more affordable option than dinner in Japan). The meal starts with homemade plum wine served with a scoop of tofu as creamy as , served with a pinch of salt. Vegetarian delicacies follow, an artwork on a plate. Then a bowl called “sunrise”, served with a calligraphy poem, based on a preserved egg as bright as a pocket-sized sun. Then comes yudofu (tofu hot-pot) – blocks of tofu simmered in tasty broth. Dessert is tofu ice-cream – nutty, toffee-ish and textured. I will never eat a more magical meal. Ginza is where the best sushi places in Tokyo are found and must be among the best in the world. Sushi Tokami is my pick of the lot, run by Michelin-starred Hiroyuki Sato, one of the young guns of the sushi scene, who loves a joke and is happy to chat and explain while making exquisitely flawless . The place is a tiny basement affair with 10 seats in total but when you also learn that Tokami means “10 gods” then you realise this restaurant is a small but beautiful offering to the world of sushi. You don’t get much better than Roppongi for a fun cheap night out in Tokyo. For just £6 you can drink as much as you like here for four hours, and the service is fantastic. It has everything: bizarre interior design, a fine selection of western and Asian music and a real buzz. It also has a great selection of traditional snacks.Ebisu is known for its izakayas (informal bar and eating joints) and as a cool spot away from the crowds of Shinjuku and Shibuya. A simple sign saying “Bar” on a nondescript building leads to a warm and hushed interior. There’s a huge selection of rare Japanese and Scotch whiskies and US bourbons. The bartenders play old jazz and blues records from a collection of thousands through vintage wooden speakers. There are simple bar snacks to keep you going – banana chips, wasabi peas and rice crackers. This is a brilliant restaurant in the Shinjuku area offering a range of  and  (all you can eat/drink) options. It specialises in  – various meats, veg and fish on skewers. Each table has a small fryer in the middle, you pick out the skewers you want and batter/fry them yourself at your table. The best thing is you can have as much as you want in 90 minutes for about ¥2,500 (£15.50) including drinks. I have eaten in many different types of restaurant in Japan but this definitely ranks at the top of my list. Not only is the food excellent but it is a fun and unique dining experience and great value for money. Nozawa Onsen is a great little ski resort, still very traditional. Its tiny streets have a great selection of eating places. My favourite was Sushibar Hamacho, a one-room place with seating at the bar or on the floor of a raised, matted platform. The place is usually busy with seemingly random opening hours. But the fresh, plump salmon and tuna are beautifully presented and of perfect quality, taste and texture. Four of us shared the platter and then polished off another one. Most meals cost around £9.Kill two culinary birds with one stone with a visit to Takayama, a historic town in the mountains 200 miles west of Tokyo, famous for both its  and sake. Once you’ve explored the numerous shrines and temples sprinkled around the surrounding hillsides, keep an eye out for the distinctive balls of cedar hanging from a building which signify a sake brewery; where the cedar ball has turned brown it means the sake is ready to drink. Several of the breweries offer tastings, and tasting cloudy sake is definitely an experience. In the evening, head to a specialist hida beef restaurant, such as Maruaki, to experience the best steak you’ll taste in your life.For the true  experience, go to Kagawa prefecture on Shikoku island. The signature foods here are soup and the al dente udon noodles.  sits in the middle of farmland, dedicated to serving mainly udon and  (thin buckwheat noodles) available only during its season from Nov-Apr. The menu is simple: small, medium or large noodles and you can add your own toppings (selection of tempura, fried bean curd and poached egg). I recommend to stay within three toppings to actually enjoy the noodles. This small hut that seats about 15 people gets very busy. People come, slurp the noodles and leave. Locals as well as Japanese tourists queue up during lunch hour. If you go too late, they will run out for the day so go early. It doesn’t do dinner. Best udon I’ve ever had (I’m Japanese). The small island of Shodoshima off Okoyama often gets overlooked by visitors to the Seto inland sea who favour its nearby arty, even smaller, neighbour Naoshima. Shodoshima, however, is a food paradise, from roadsides lined with olive groves, to the smell of sesame oil wafting through the air; food is central to life here. Highlights for visitors include Yamaroku, a small family soy sauce producer who estimates the age of its business through the ancient barrels its soy sauce ferments in. It is free to visit and you can climb up and look into the dark vats as well as sample a delightful spectrum of soy sauce products. Around the corner you will also find , a local somen noodle-maker where you can watch the thin wheat-flour noodles being hand-rolled, while eating the one dish on the menu, a bowl of fresh somen with dipping sauce.The opportunity to indulge in a golden ice-cream is rare; but not here in Kanazawa. The city was spared from bombing during the second world war and has managed to retain its historic districts and charm. It produces almost all of Japan’s gold leaf, and there must be a surplus because it’s even used as an ice cream topping. You can buy the creamy, gold ice-cream from various stands in the historic parts of town.Street food has been mainstream in Japan for a while now, with variations on  in the 20 or so eateries in Hiroshima’s Okonomiyaki building a classic example. Combining whatever ingredients you want fried up with fish stock and cabbage pancake mix is an unpretentious meal, eaten off up-turned beer crates while sat around the hot plate. The snack is highly visual, with a pizza-size lattice of mayonnaise and tangy sauce mingling with oscillating tuna flakes sizzling away. Yours for £7. </content>
<class_name>Japan holidays,Restaurants
(Travel),Food and drink,Asia,Japanese food and drink,Food & drink,Restaurants
(Life and style),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-10T12:31:41+0000</date>
<title>Best places to eat and drink in Japan: readers’ travel tips</title>
<content>Whether it’s the widescreen appeal of landscapes or capturing small details on a memorable trip, we want you to .The winning image will be mounted and displayed to the public with the other monthly winners in an end-of-year exhibition at the Guardian offices in London. And digital printers  will send you a copy of your shot to hang on your own wall.The winner will be entered for the overall prize, a seven-night ‘Secret Fjords’ self-drive holiday to Iceland for two people, courtesy of .Please read this before you post your image: We need you to  via GuardianWitness.  You’ll also need to  on where it was taken, what’s happening in the shot, what inspired you to take it, any technical details if pertinent. You must also supply your full name with the caption. The closing date for entries is 23:00 on 25 April 2016. is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:19:32+0100</date>
<title>Readers' travel photography competition: April</title>
<content>The famous  in Drumcondra is where the then taoiseach Bertie Ahern stopped the traffic to bring Bill Clinton for a jar on his visit to Dublin in 2000, and where the photos on the walls document all the famous customers as well as the rich local history. Start there then take a short walk down Millmount Avenue to Griffith Park and follow the Tolka river to the  (free entry). The Palm House is breathtaking – look for the plaque marking the spot where the great philosopher Wittgenstein, who lived in Dublin for a couple of years after the second world war, liked to sit. The gardens allows direct access to  (entry free) – Dublin’s Père Lachaise – and a focal point of the . Exiting the cemetery at the south gate (not the main gate) you enter Prospect Square and can finish the walk with a pint in , known locally as the Gravediggers. This is one of Dublin’s most atmospheric old pubs and a world away from the tourist trap that is the Temple Bar area. My favourite area of Dublin is a collection of lively streets bounded by Grafton Street, Exchequer Street, George’s Street and Stephen Street Lower. While it may not be on the traditional tourist circuit, the area is being discovered by visitors and has recently acquired the title of Dublin’s Creative Quarter. Filled with boutiques, eateries, traditional pubs and arcades, it gives a taste of locals’ Dublin. A good place to start exploring is  (27 Drury St), a wonderful, friendly shop of colourful and affordable clothing, from vintage to new designs.This is one of the less visited sites in Dublin.  is a beautiful but small building designed by Sir William Chambers in the mid-18th century and is a fantastic example of neo-classical architecture. It is well worth a visit for anyone who is interested in architecture and its single room appearance will leave many surprised once they enter the building. Combine a trip here with  and the brilliant . The best place to enjoy a pint of the black stuff and a bit of craic is , a shabby old pub just off Grafton Street and close to St Stephen’s Green. There’s original art for sale on the walls (the owner has a great eye for up-and-coming artists) and great ham and cheese toasties to tuck in to. Try not to stay there all evening, as fantastic pubs like , the  and the  are all within striking distance. Not the easiest of places to find (you have to go through a stationery shop to enter) but the Cake Café is well worth the effort. The picturesque courtyard is a nice place to sit with a glass of wine, although the mismatched crockery and loud tablecloths may seem kitsch. The owners are very serious when it comes to the environmental side of the business - the cafe serves up ethically sourced coffee and home-baked cakes using only local ingredients. Disposable cutlery and napkins are avoided. Lovely people trying to make a difference but not allowing their product to suffer for it. The ground floor range of arts, crafts and gifts at the Dublin branch of Kilkenny Shop is excellent, carefully selected and far from the usual tourist souvenirs you will find elsewhere. And the first-floor restaurant is a foodie’s dream, with a great range of hot foods, cold platters and homemade cakes. Try and get a window table to look out across to Trinity College. South Dublin’s river is the beautiful Dodder, famed for its rich and varied wildlife. Along its banks you can spot bats, kingfishers, otters … and, erm, the Dodder Rhino. He’s big, bronze, and beautiful. In fact, he’s turned out to be one of Dublin’s greatest mysteries. Back in 2002 he appeared overnight, without fanfare, within the Dodder’s waters. As luck would have it he’s situated very conveniently next to the  (Classon’s Bridge, Milltown) – 2014’s Dublin Bar of the Year, no less – which denies all knowledge of how the rhino got there. There’s a lot we don’t know about him, but I love this rhino in the river.Glasnevin Cemetery is about two miles from O’Connell St and is a great place to learn about the history of Dublin and Ireland. Guided tours take in the graves of the famous and the nameless, to Michael Collins and Éamon de Valera ( close to each other in death) and include a performance of . Check out the 2014 film by Aoife Kelleher, One Million Dubliners, for more on the fascinating stories behind the people buried here. If you fancy a dance, head to Harcourt Street, which is lined with bars and clubs. One of them is , an institution. Another fantastic place is the  (15 Crown Alley) where High Tea means a concoction involving marmalade vodka and green chartreuse. It makes you feel as if you’re in the Great Gatsby!For a fabulous day trip, visit the Powerscourt Estate, about 20 miles south of the city under the . On the way you could stop off at the seaside town of Bray (Dart train from Dublin Connolly, €6.85 return) as we did, then jump on a bus to Enniskerry (€2.70) and walk up to Powerscourt House. The landscaped gardens are stunning and well worth the entry price. There are lots of small, themed gardens – a favourite being the Japanese garden. You can also buy a ticket to see Ireland’s highest waterfall for an extra €6, but this will involve a four-mile walk from the main estate, or a coach tour to get there. The Avoca terrace cafe is a lovely place to grab a coffee and some lunch and take in the beauty of the area, overlooking the estate gardens and the mountains beyond. </content>
<class_name>Dublin holidays,Ireland holidays,Europe holidays,Weekend breaks,Short breaks,City breaks,Top 10s,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-17T11:29:28+0000</date>
<title>Things to do in Dublin: readers’ travel tips</title>
<content>Escape games are , but HintHunt is where it all started. Your team (three to five people, kids aged 9+ with a parent) is locked in a room and has 60 minutes to solve clues and crack codes to get yourselves out. There are two types of room to choose from: a 1940s detective’s office and a Japanese Zen room. “Look everywhere,” they told us before we went in. “Be suspicious of every single object.” A big screen on the wall counts down the minutes but also feeds you helpful hints if you’re really stuck. Yep, someone is watching your every move.The success rate is 50% for the detective room and 45% for the Zen room. It’s no doddle.It’s utterly absorbing and there are totally unexpected twists and turns. It’s also a great family equaliser. I got put in my place at one point for assuming I knew best: “Mum!” popped up a message on the screen, “Listen to what your son just said!”There are plenty of places outside Euston station.  is as good an American diner experience as you’ll find in the UK: burgers from £6.35, fries from £2.95, peanut butter milkshake (big enough for two) £4.55; junior bites for kids 10 and under £4.65.Nope. There isn’t one.It’s a two-minute walk from Euston railway and underground station.£20.40 to £26.40pp, depending on the size of your team and the day of the week. It’s not cheap for an hour’s entertainment – we did it as a treat for our son’s birthday – but it’s a frenziedly intense hour. It took another 60 minutes for our bodies to stop quivering and our brains to stop hurting.11.45am-8.15pm daily.9/10 (but perhaps we’re only depriving it of a point because we’re bitter – we were two minutes short of escaping).</content>
<class_name>London holidays,Day trips,Family holidays,England holidays,United Kingdom holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-22T11:16:42+0000</date>
<title>Take the kids to … HintHunt, London</title>
<content>A family activity farm with “a fun-packed programme whatever the weather”, provided you have a car (to minimise travel hassle) and it’s sunny. Off season, a lot of the toilets and outdoor features are closed, and it’s so quiet you can hear the M25. But go in summer – and for its Easter events – and you’ll get your money’s worth. Tractors, farm animals … what’s not to like for younger kids? Currently, running until 28 March, there are Easter shows, egg hunts, stories and a meet-and-greet with the Easter bunny. On 2 April, it also launches a Peter Rabbit-themed adventure playground. Wholesome outdoorsy activities, such as baby animal handling, pig-racing and lamb bottle-feeding demonstrations, make a good antidote for kids who have had too much iPad time recently. You mix with the great and good at Willows. Recent visitors include Premier League footballer Andy Carroll and  Billi Mucklow – seen picking pumpkins. Other famous fans include Mrs Tom-from-McBusted Giovanna Fletcher and sprinter Dwain Chambers. Bring your own, unless you mind forking out for something from the varied, if unimaginative, canteen menu. Hot plate food includes the likes of macaroni cheese, jacket potatoes, 1980s-style salads (iceberg, sweetcorn) and panini – but whatever you pick, you’re looking at an average of a fiver per child without drinks, and £7 for an adult. Bags of fizzy cola bottles and mini fried eggs line the counter, so be prepared for less-considerate parents to indulge their little mogwai and let them loose as gremlins in the vast soft play area next to the restaurant. Peculiarly, most of what’s on offer is aimed at parents: colourful children’s anoraks, distressed nursery furniture and the sorts of toys and gifts you’d drool over in JoJo Maman Bébé.  Being within earshot of the M25, it’s easy for drivers. By train, St Albans City station is less than 20 minutes from London St Pancras, then it’s the 84 bus (a 15-minute bus trip; do ask the driver to stop at the Bull pub, you’ll never spot it in time to ring the bell) which, on Sundays, only runs every half an hour. Open daily except for Christmas and New Year, 10.30am-5.30pm,  At £14.50 a child, at peak times (which includes all activities, theatre shows, craft stuff and adventure play), it’s good value for kids. Parents, however, pay the same price. 6/10</content>
<class_name>Day trips,Family holidays,England holidays,United Kingdom holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T12:35:04+0000</date>
<title>Take the kids to … Willows Activity Farm, Hertfordshire</title>
<content>The World of Beatrix Potter Attraction in Bowness-on-Windermere has hidden 150 handmade ceramic eggs around the Lake District. An interactive, online map has clues for seekers and will be updated throughout the day as eggs are found. All finders get free entry into the attraction (usually £7.20/£3.70) and 10 will win a prize – the star prize is a week’s holiday in the Lakes in a five-star cottage. Carden Park’s treetop hunt sees kids swinging through the tree canopy on a high ropes course, collecting chocolate along the way. Daredevils can attempt the “cheep of faith” – climbing a high pole to reach a nest of treats, then abseiling down with the booty. The course culminates with a 250-metre zipline – while whizzing down, anyone who throws an egg into another nest wins a prize.  Open-air museum Blists Hill Victorian Town is celebrating Easter Victorian-style, with daily “egg dances”: dancing blindfolded across a street peppered with eggs. Children who manage to do it without breaking an egg will be rewarded with chocolate. Other traditional activities include egg rolling, Easter bonnet parades, a chick trail and egg-and-spoon races.  This adventurous egg hunt takes place in two- or three-seat Canadian canoes on the Beaulieu river, Hampshire. As well as hidden chocolate eggs, there is plenty of wildlife to spot on the way, including New Forest ponies and deer. The Eden Project’s imaginative Easter events include a giant “obseggcle” course; “hard-boiled” and “over-easy” egg hunts; twists on fairground games, such as an egg shy and a fried-egg firing range; an Easter-themed crazy golf course; and an “eggucational” trail with unusual animal eggs and nests. Adults will appreciate the spring flowers: tulips, bluebells, primroses, violets, campion, flowering palms and jade vines. Three venues in Lincoln – the Performing Arts Centre, the Drill Hall and the Collection – are hosting an arts festival for children. Programme highlights are a Hairy Maclary theatre show, storytelling, craft activities, puppet shows, dance performances and a family-friendly piano concert. This family festival has daily films, live shows and activities. Workshops include circus skills, podcasting, dance, drama, chocolate-making and comic-book animation. Shows range from stand-up for kids to an adaptation of Stig of the Dump. There is even a classical concert for babies. This annual comedy extravaganza now includes a children’s festival. Shows encompass stand-up, magic and puppetry, and there is a “silly disco” with dressing up and prizes. The Tatton Park estate is marking Roald Dahl’s centenary with year-long events. Over Easter, these include themed trails: Danny the Champion of the World in the gardens, Fantastic Mr Fox on the farm and Matilda in the mansion. There are golden tickets to win chocolate bars, magic shows, a puppet theatre and a stableyard full of chocolate. The National Waterways Museum’s Easter gathering at Ellesmere Port attracts scores of boats. There are trips along the canal, lock demonstrations and craft workshops. Sea shanty performers will pop up across the museum, as well as in concert on Friday and Saturday nights. The Nifty Numbers trail at second world war code-breaking site Bletchley Park is more cerebral than your average Easter hunt, with puzzles, challenges, games and activities. On Easter Sunday, there are drop-in workshops about coded messages (for 5-12 year olds) and, on Easter Monday, craft sessions to make cards with coded patterns (for 8-14 year olds).  This new attraction tells the story of the city’s pioneering Victorian engineering projects and the people behind them, including Isambard Kingdom Brunel. Easter activities include a shanty singing workshop (30 March). These Easter shows sneak in some education with the entertainment. We’re Stuck!, an interactive maths, science and robots show, teaches kids not to be scared of making mistakes. Play Dough, meanwhile, has 10,000 real pound coins on stage, teaches children about money and the financial crisis, and gets the audience to compete in high-energy games. An interactive science show at the Scottish Seabird Centre about Captain Flap teaches kids about the principles of flight, and there are workshops to make fizzy-bottle rockets, kites, paper planes and cut-out birds. It’s part of the . Warwick Castle is opening a new, multi-sensory Horrible Histories maze, featuring moving walls and interactive puzzles (opens 19 March, from £13, ). Leeds Castle in Kent has Easter Through the Looking Glass: Alice in Wonderland-themed family fun with Mad Hatter’s tea parties and croquet on the lawn (25 March-10 April, adult £22.05, child £14.85, ). Dover Castle is hosting a pan-historic children’s festival, from the days of Roman gladiators to WW2 soldiers (25-28 March, , adult £18, child £11.80, under-fives free). Stirling Castle has a Festival of Foolery, where kids can learn to be a court jester (26 & 27 March, , adult £14.50, child £8.70, under-fives free).Tapnell Farm Park is opening a new activity and adventure base, including a “Moo-seum” about beef and dairy history, in time for the  holidays. There’s also an indoor soft-play barn with cafe, go karts, the usual farmyard animal encounters, plus wallabies and meerkats to meet.This country show for kids has lots of farmyard fun, with feeding, grooming and petting stations for donkeys, goats, cows, rabbits, sheep, pigs and alpaca. There are Shetland pony cart rides and dray rides; bouncy and pedal-powered tractors; cooking workshops; and planting a mushroom log to take home. Sea Life Brighton, the world’s oldest operating aquarium, has a new attraction for Easter. Secrets of the Reef brings Maldives coral, clownfish and sea horses to East Sussex, and includes a crawl-through tunnel for kids to get close to the tropical marine life (opens 24 March, from £10.95, ). Sea Life London, meanwhile, has a new walk-through Frozen Planet section. It is based on the BBC series, and uses augmented-reality technology to display the Northern Lights and bring visitors face-to-face with polar bears and killer whales (opens 25 March, adult £24.50, child £18.10, under-threes free, ).A Wipe Out-style course is opening on 25 March at Retallack Resort near Newquay and Padstow. The giant, floating inflatables include slides, a trampoline, a climbing wall, balance beams and a “blast bag” to bounce people high into the air – and down into the water.A similar attraction – Crash & Splash and the Blob – is coming to , which opened last year.  A new immersive tour at Llechwedd Slate Caverns, opening in time for Easter, journeys 500ft underground on the steepest cable railway in Britain. Light projections, enhanced-reality technology and special effects are used to tell the story of Victorian slate miners – and visitors can try some of the mining techniques themselves. Chill Factore indoor snow centre has a range of one- and two-day camps. Snow Fun Camps are for beginners who want to learn the basics of skiing and snowboarding, try luging, tubing and sledging, and have a go on the climbing wall. The Beginner and Improver Camps are more focused on skiing or snowboarding, while the Race Camp is for more experienced skiers who want to try the gates and slalom.  The Railway Children stage-to-screen film of the York Theatre Royal’s Olivier award-winning production at the National Railway Museum in Yorkshire is released at cinemas nationwide on 28 March (). There are lots of Easter specials on real railways, too. Thomas the Tank Engine is coming to the Watercress Line, Alresford (25 March-3 April, adult £18, child £12, ), near Winchester. There is a mini circus workshop on the Strathspey Steam Railway in Aviemore (27, 28 March, adult £14.25, child £8.65, under-fives £1.50, ). The Spa Valley Railway in Tunbridge Wells has Easter egg hunts (25-28 March, £25 all-day family ticket, ). The Easter Bunny is hopping on board a vintage steam train on Gwili Railway, Carmarthen (25-28 March, adult £11, child £5, under-threes free, ). Kids travel for a quid on the Kent & East Sussex Railway, and there is a petting farm at Bodiam Station with lambs, chicks, piglets and ducklings (25 March-10 April, farm 25-28 March, ).DJ-turned-actor Idris Elba returns to the decks for a one-off event at Egg London. The King’s Cross club has a great mix of indoor and outdoor spaces and a 24-hour licence. Alongside The Wire star, partygoers should look out for another special-guest DJ (details currently under wraps). It’s all about local produce at the Big Sussex Market in Brighton – a smorgasbord of 120 stalls showcasing the tastiest morsels from the county’s best growers, restaurateurs and cafes. The two-day event on New Road runs from 10am-5pm – plenty of time to fill your boots. For music of another kind altogether, the King’s College Cambridge choir is running a week-long festival of services and concerts over Easter, including the college choir and the Hanover Band performing Handel’s Brockes Passion on Saturday 26 March at 7.30pm. No tickets required.   There’s endless fun for petrol heads at the action-packed Festival of Power, a weekend of drag Racing at Santa Pod Raceway in Northamptonshire, over Easter weekend. All things powerful – from top fuel dragsters and nitro funny cars to monster trucks – will be revving up a storm, with stunt displays and a funfair adding to the noisy mix. </content>
<class_name>Family holidays,Day trips,Cultural trips,United Kingdom holidays,Easter,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-19T09:00:06+0000</date>
<title>It's a bunny thing … Easter days out around the UK</title>
<content>A maze of mysterious pathways, cut between moss-covered rocks (known as scowles), occupying an enchanted wood, in the middle of the Forest of Dean. Gandalf eat your heart out. Elves and trolls, fairies and gnomes, it feels like anything and anyone could peek out at you in this magical, mythical landscape. No set trails, just reach a fork in the path and choose your route. A place where your kids – and your imagination – can run wild.Film crews love it almost as much as the kids. Sequences for television shows Merlin, Doctor Who, and Atlantis have been shot here, as have scenes for the movies Jack the Giant Slayer, and Star Wars: The Force Awakens.The new Animal Colouring App. Their brains buzzing after their walk in the woods, my kids loved creating gigantic virtual chickens and pigs – and all with just a felt pen and a smartphone. There is a small onsite cafe for paninis, baked potatoes and similar snacks, or picnic benches for those bringing their own. For pub grub, try the  in the nearby village of Newland.Only if you choose to. There are Puzzlewood-branded cookies and shortbread, plus locally produced apple and pear juices on offer. And there are elegant wooden walking sticks for anyone unsteady on their feet.Tricky without a car. Either a train to Lydney (5.6 miles) or Chepstow (10 miles) and then taxi, or train to Gloucester and then bus to Coleford (Route 30 and 31).Adults £6.50, child (3-16) £5.50, family ticket for four £23. So, yes, definitely. As well as the woods, there is an indoor and outdoor maze, farm animals and a playground. It’s one of the few outings that improves in the rain!Daily, April to October. Check website for low-season openings. Easter Egg hunt, 25-28 March; performance of A Midsummer Night’s Dream, 27 June to 3 July, 01594 833187, 8/10.</content>
<class_name>Day trips,Gloucestershire holidays,Family holidays,United Kingdom holidays,England holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T11:00:15+0000</date>
<title>Take the kids to … Puzzlewood, Forest of Dean</title>
<content>In a chocolate box, more like … everything you ever wanted to know about chocolate, under one roof. The tone is set at the ticket booth where everyone gets three bars (a Crunchy, Dairy Milk and – oh yes! – a Curly Wurly) to munch on while taking the self-guided tour on the history and the production of chocolate and the earnest, philanthropic Cadbury family, before entering the factory and then riding through a “chocolate wonderland”.Bournville, the model workers’ village built by the Cadburys and home of Cadbury World, has never had a pub because the family were temperance Quakers. The historic village green is one of the prettiest and most interesting parts of Birmingham and worth a visit while you’re here.From 25-28 March, there’s an egg trail and bonnet competition, and a chance to meet Freddo, Caramel Bunny and Creme Egg, and throughout the school holiday there’ll be live entertainment, including magicians and ventriloquists.The new 4D film, a virtual ride on the “Crunchie rollercoaster”, is a real thrill – the only thing here that captures the Willy Wonka-ish world that the words “chocolate” and “theme park” conjure up. Some of our party (OK, the adults) also loved the slightly sickly but delicious cups of melted chocolate handed out in the factory, which you can garnish with marshmallows, sprinkles and – guess what? – chocolate buttons.The usual self-service restaurant food – burgers, jacket spuds, fish and chips, paninis, etc – and loads of choccy puds, obviously.No, through the chocolate shop, in case you fancy a chocolate football (life-size and weighing 1.5kg) or a chocolate teapot to take home. For hardcore chocheads the Factory Zone offers bulk buys: for example, 8kg (yes,) of Cadbury’s Buttons for £39.99.It’s a 15-minute walk from Bourneville train station, which is a 14-minute ride from Birmingham New Street (trains every 10 minutes). Cadbury World is signposted and easy to reach from the M5 and M42; try to avoid driving via the city centre.It depends on how much you like chocolate. The history element is interesting but the rides lack oomph and are rather dated. Adult £16.75, child (aged 4-15) £12.30, family £49.96 (2+2) or £59.95 (2+3).Seven days a week, from between 9am and 10am to between 3pm and 4.30pm, depending on the time of year and day of the week.6/10 from me but the kids were like … well, kids in a sweetshop: my six-year-old son George gave it 10, his nine-year-old cousin Millie 9.5. If you like chocolate, you’ll love it … Have I made that clear enough?</content>
<class_name>Birmingham holidays,Day trips,Theme parks,Family holidays,England holidays,United Kingdom holidays,Chocolate,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-21T10:00:05+0000</date>
<title>Take the kids to ... Cadbury World, Birmingham</title>
<content>f you’re planning on picking up one of the Holy Donut’s signature fried confections, be sure to arrive early. By the time the sun creeps over the horizon, queues have already formed at the shop’s two branches and by midday, hordes of devoted locals have snapped up most of the selection. With a roster of gourmet flavours including chai-glazed, maple-bacon and dark chocolate-sea salt, it’s no wonder the place has developed a cult following since opening its first shop in Portland, Maine, in 2012.Though these fritters contain top-notch ingredients such as Belgian Callebaut chocolate, what sets them apart from other breakfast fare is something far more humble: Maine potatoes. Founder Leigh Kellis stumbled across the idea five years ago when she was “craving donuts intensely”. Unable to find any that met her standards, she set out to create her own. “Maine is known for its potatoes, and a friend suggested I try adding mashed potato in my donut recipe.” A first attempt based on an recipe from go-to US cookbook  resulted in a confection with a gutsier character than Krispy Kremes. Further tinkering led to variations including tasty gluten-free and vegan options, which she began frying in her apartment and selling to local coffee shops.Today, the business churns out more than a million hand-cut guilty pleasures a year. Mashed spuds or roasted sweet potatoes add moisture and make for a hearty, golden crumb capable of standing up to bold toppings. They would also keep the donuts fresh for days – if any of them lasted that long.</content>
<class_name>Food and drink,United States holidays,North and Central America holidays,American food and drink,Maine holidays,Food & drink,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T11:00:13+0100</date>
<title>Holy Donuts! 'We add potato to ours'</title>
<content>Making a splash is the traditional way to celebrate victory at the first LPGA major of the year, with the winner taking a leap into Poppie’s Pond at the Mission Hills Country Club in Rancho Mirage, California (from Thursday, Sky Sports 4). The pond next to the 18th green was named after Terry Wilcox (Poppie to his grandchildren) and that tradition of jumping in began with Amy Alcott in 1988. The tournament, known by the rather uninspiring moniker of the ANA Inspiration was by the big-hitting Brittany Lincicome, after she took an eagle on the last hole to force a play-off with Stacy Lewis, before taking the plunge. She will defend her title but the spotlight is likely to be on New Zealand’s Lydia Ko, the teenage sensation who last year  – aged 17 – and shortly afterwards the youngest to win a major – the Evian Championship.Two goals for Luis Suárez, and one apiece for Neymar and Andrés Iniesta completed Barcelona’s 4-0 rout that left Real Madrid  in November at the Bernabéu. That was without Lionel Messi who came on with 10 minutes to go. Zinedine Zidane’s Real also , so the need to win at the Camp Nou adds a sense of urgency to the already high drama of Saturday’s  (Sky Sports 2, 7pm). Luis Enrique’s side will be equally eager to do the double, making it two in the past three seasons and for an even more highly-charged contest than usual.The BBC has lost Suzi Perry to BT Sport where she returns to MotoGP (Grand Prix of Argentina qualifying: Saturday 4pm, race: Sunday, 7.45pm, BT Sport 2) but she is on Radio 2 for an intriguing  special on Monday at 5pm. She has a host of racing greats, including Lewis Hamilton, Jenson Button, Niki Lauda, David Coulthard and the man who has spanned so many eras of music and motors, Murray Walker, sharing their favourite tunes and explaining what music means to them.A chance to win a title fight with Sweden’s Badou Jack, the current WBC super-middleweight champion, is the prize on offer for Britain’s Callum Smith on Saturday (Sky Sports 2, 8pm). He will fight France’s Hadillah Mohoumadi on home ground at the Echo Arena in Liverpool, to defend his WBC (Silver) super-middleweight belt and for Mohoumadi’s European title, but the real reward for Smith will be placing him in the mandatory challenger position for a fight with Jack. The latter successfully defended his title against George Groves in September last year after a split decision. Smith is undefeated, with 13 KOs from 18 fights, including knocking out local rival Rocky Fielding inside the first round at his last fight - but the Frenchman will be no pushover. Mohoumadi took James DeGale, the IBF world champion who wants a unification fight with Jack as well, the distance, when they met in 2012.Everyone’s favourite bespectacled underdog flies again on Monday, when  opens in cinemas. Eddie Edwards was the first British competitor in an Olympic ski-jumping event, taking part in the 1988 Games in Calgary, Canada and was widely admired by the public, if not by the men in blazers of the International Olympic Committee who swiftly changed the rules to ensure their event would not be sullied again by someone living up to Baron de Coubertin’s Olympic-founding ethos: “The important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win, but to take part.” Edwards has said the film, which stars Hugh Jackman, has taken considerable poetic licence with his story and it certainly does not shy away from the schmaltzy, sport biopic template, more  than .</content>
<class_name>Golf,Real Madrid,Barcelona,Formula One 2016,Formula One,Boxing,Winter Olympics,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T14:56:41+0000</date>
<title>The Agenda: Lydia Ko looks to make a splash and Barça seek Clásico double</title>
<content>This castle, built by William the Conqueror, is now in the hands of  (owner of mega attractions such as , Alton Towers, Sea Life Centres and the London Eye). The site has been turned into a theme park but the epic stronghold, one of the finest in the country, remains the centrepiece.The castle has joined forces with the Horrible Histories gang, which has added an “adventure maze” and a comedy show telling the 1,000-year history of the castle in a half-hour play. With six history zones (from a Viking ship to first world war trenches), the maze is good fun for younger children, though the foliage needs time to mature – we could see through several hedges at a time. The two-man play is clever and very funny but much of it went over the head of my seven-year-old, George.For younger kids, the castle comes to life in activities (included in the price) such as a the falconry display, fun swordsmanship workshop, and guided tours specifically for four-eight-year-olds in which they see a real secret passage (and George was chosen to dress up as a knight in real chain mail). And though it’s been given the Merlin treatment (stalls selling toy swords at every turn and piped medieval music in the garden) the castle interior itself is still gobsmackingly impressive.As well as four periods as a crown property under seven monarchs, there have been 30-plus owners of the castle: at least three died in battle, two were executed and one murdered.Sadly, there are no medieval banquets or hogs roasting on spits (surely an opportunity missed?), just the uninspired fast food found at all Merlin attractions. Best take a picnic and eat on the banks of the river Avon, which flows through the lovely grounds.Absolutely no way of avoiding it.Warwick station, on the London Marylebone-Birmingham line, is a mile from the castle. And it’s only two miles off the M40 – the car park is an extra £6-£10.Every day from 10am until 5pm (4pm in winter).Yes, if you book five or more days in advance at £18pp (at the gate it’s £25.20 adult and £22.20 child). You could easily spend a whole day here and many kids’ activities are included. We had to leave after four hours, which wasn’t long enough to see everything.7.5/10. It’s a proper and full day out. </content>
<class_name>England holidays,Day trips,Family holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T14:59:21+0000</date>
<title>Take the kids to … Warwick Castle</title>
<content>s an atheist, I am unlikely to ever need spiritual guidance in the Lake District. What I do require, however, in an area where hotel room-rates frequently cause me to invoke God’s name in volleys of unchristian language, is more value-for-money accommodation.Therefore it gladdens my heart to see that Villa Levens – a handsome Victorian pile originally built as a family home and then used as a convent until 2012 – has been turned into just such a dependable bolthole. Most tourists head straight for the Lakes’ heartlands of Windermere and Ambleside, where, naturally, bedrooms command a premium but here in the relatively unfashionable (and, yes, flatter, less visually striking) southern portion of the Lakes, you can book an unusually spacious, hi-spec double room from £85 a night midweek. Those prices may be less charitable than they were when the Salesian Sisters of St John Bosco ran Villa Levens as a religious retreat, but then they weren’t big on Temple Spa toiletries, smart bathrooms, crisp linens and comfy beds.Owned by regional hospitality company the Villa Group, Villa Levens is primarily a wedding/conference venue; one where glossy fliers on each table push Easter Sunday lunch and afternoon teas. Do not book here expecting boutique flourishes.However, despite its slightly corporate edge, the £3m refit has been executed with a winning, elegant restraint. The interior makes good use of the building’s historic features: its central open staircase, focal fireplaces, scrolling plasterwork. Huge windows frame views across Villa Levens’ 14 acres of grounds to local A roads (the noise does not intrude) and sheep-dotted hills beyond. A few flashier interior design details (chic monochrome wallpapers, chandeliers), are kept to a judicious minimum and, like the antique ornaments, fit the polished period feel.If the much-vaunted luxuriousness does not extend to every detail (dull bedroom tea-tray; rudimentary G&T before dinner; my in-room safe doesn’t work), it has its moments. For instance, the superior rooms have TVs in the bathroom. Some may find that vulgar, but watching Corrie in the bath is my kind of luxury. Suitably pampered, you can then secrete yourself in one of two lounges – the butch gentleman’s club-style Snug would be my preference – by one of several log-burning stoves, which, allied to the ministrations of the obliging staff, make this an undeniably cosy refuge. Note: the main wedding and conference action happens in a separate building, so the house and its 22 bedrooms remain relatively quiet.That said, in the dimly lit formal dining room, where linen napkins are still fussily laid in guests’ laps, I endured a bizarre soundtrack of orchestral pop covers. Perhaps it is meant to mask the chat drifting in from the adjacent brasserie (the same menu is currently served in both), but I will take laughter over Eye of the Tiger any day.Luckily, the food distracted me, without it quite hitting a resonant high note. Rather dry soda bread and a bland sticky toffee pudding book-ended the meal disappointingly, but a starter of goat’s cheese croquettes with smoked beetroot and charred fennel was a balanced dish of well-judged flavours. A main of roast hogget was reasonably good, a testament to the flavour complexity of older lamb, but I was unpersuaded by the curious mint hollandaise sauce accompanying it.Breakfast could have been sharper, too. Dull pastries and a rather (pardon the pun) ham-fisted eggs benedict, were very much – unlike those impressive bedrooms – standard hotel fare. But following an invigorating morning run in winter sunshine by the river Kent up to nearby , nothing could cloud my mood. Later, I headed into Kendal, which, while not the prettiest Lakeland town (if you want cute, try Cartmel) has, in the likes of hip diner , two brewery-taps, the  and , or , its interesting hang-outs. See? In the Lakes, it pays to explore beyond the obvious.    No trip to Cumbria would be complete without visiting a good pub. Near Kendal, I like the by Sizergh Castle, which serves big, hearty portions. The  is also fantastic for drinks, pizza and tapas, and watching independent, cult films in its Warehouse Café.  For local foodie produce,  is a good place to go.It’s a working farm so you can watch the cows being milked.  There are stunning pieces to enjoy on the , a unique art experience. They wouldn’t work anywhere else.  Just outside Kendal, you can walk directly up  to “the Mushroom”, a circular shelter which has the many surrounding fells’ names engraved around it. Or you can do a full two-hour circuit via the  in Brigsteer, a lovely pub that serves locally sourced food.</content>
<class_name>Lake District holidays,United Kingdom holidays,England holidays,Weekend breaks,Food and drink,Hotels,Short breaks,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-20T11:00:37+0000</date>
<title>The Villa Levens, near, Kendal, Lake District: hotel review</title>
<content>s an Everton fan, I shouldn’t really like the Shankly, which opened in Liverpool last autumn. As well as providing the usual hotel services, it’s a temple to the memory of , the Ayrshire–born manager of Liverpool FC, who turned the team’s fortunes round between 1959 and 1974 and is credited with establishing the Red megabrand.There’s Shankly memorabilia – photographs, programmes, a pair of boots – in the lobby, and Shankly clan tartan and crests everywhere you look. Behind reception is one of many Shankly quotations: “Liverpool was made for me and I was made for .” I pass a mural charting his career en route to my bedroom, where there’s a bust of him on the table and a long, adoring homage to him – penned by his grandson, Chris, who’s the hotel manager – on the ceiling above the bed.Overkill? Well, yes, but, thanks to austere interior design that suits this airy former council building, you can almost forget the godlike persona for a few seconds at a time. Apparently, owner Lawrence Kenwright fits out all his properties with dark wood, marble, brown padded walls, gilt-framed mirrors, antlers and faux vintage furniture (including, here, old birdcages filled with brown leather footballs). It’s expensive-looking – the Shankly is a £20m project – and very male, but it would have to be.There are 57 bedrooms over three floors; a fourth floor has apartments, popular with stags and hens. My first-floor suite (from £81 booked online) has a huge double bed, as well as two singles, a huge whirlpool bath, a huge telly, and long windows overlooking Victoria Street. It’s well-heated and soundproofed: I can see the passing buses without hearing them.Lime Street station, the Liverpool One shopping complex and Mathew Street – site of the Cavern and some of the city’s older pubs – are all less than 10 minutes’ walk away. Even the docks are only quarter of an hour away, so food and fun are all within easy reach.My brother, who lives nearby and is a Red, comes in for a pint. He loves the hotel and names the players in the photo above my bed with fond nostalgia: St John, Callaghan, Hunt, Milne … The following night, FC Augsburg are playing Liverpool, and lots of German fans are staying at the Shankly. The place is booked solid on weekends and match days for months.Breakfast is in the Bastion restaurant (from a Shankly quote about LFC being “a bastion of invincibility”). It’s a decent, if mainly old-school, spread, with the usual hot items, and smoked salmon and cured meats on a low shelf. At night it serves local dishes including Croxteth Hall Farm sausages. Kevin Keegan and Emlyn Hughes are scoring goals on three silent screens, and I spot a red This Is Your Life album in a cabinet. It’s a bit like living inside a mad fan’s psyche, but with the volume down.The Shankly isn’t finished: they’re still building a conference space and rooftop bar. By late summer it should be done and the only noise will be from the bus station. In a city short on hotel beds but not on attractions, this is a welcome upmarket curiosity.The Shankly demonstrates that there is no limit to theming. Why not a Bunnymen boutique hotel? A Royle Family inn? The Shankly name has a special kudos, my brother insists. “He was a fans’ manager, a genuine, warm-hearted bloke.” But he would say that.Up the M62, , owned by former Manchester United players Gary Neville and Ryan Giggs, was an instant hit when it opened last year. And coming any day soon is my own Dixie Dean campsite.  , round the corner on St John’s Lane, is a great pub with Victorian tiles and real ales. It’s named for William Henry Duncan, Liverpool’s – and the UK’s – first medical officer of health.Stroll around well-tended St John’s Gardens, admire the neo-classical Victorian civic palaces of William Brown Street on its northern edge, and pop into the to see the major Pre-Raphaelites exhibition (until 5 June, £7).Walk down Victoria Street to Castle Street and see if you can locate the 13th-century Sanctuary stone in the pavement, the oldest object in Liverpool city centre. This article was amended on 7 March 2016. An earlier version incorrectly described Lawrence Kenwright as the son of the Everton chairman, Bill Kenwright.</content>
<class_name>Liverpool holidays,Hotels,England holidays,United Kingdom holidays,Bill Shankly,Liverpool,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-05T11:00:02+0000</date>
<title>The Shankly Hotel, Liverpool: review</title>
<content>ur arrival in Shaldon instantly put me into a holiday mood. Driving over the bridge from Teignmouth, the harbour sparkling in the sunshine, we entered the village in full celebratory swing, bedecked in bunting for the annual , with sailors spilling out of the pubs. The road got narrower and narrower, and just as I thought we’d have to get out of the car and walk, we turned the corner and there was the hotel.Built in 1812 as a summer home for Lord Clifford, the Ness stands above the village, apart not just in location but in style too. In the heart of the village it’s all pastel Georgian cottages, while the Ness looks like a colonial villa, with a wrought iron balcony running round the front and sides.If there’s one word to sum up this nine-room property it’s “jaunty”. They’ve taken the nautical theme and run with it. There are upturned boats for seats in the dining room; the stairway and landings are covered in sea charts and photos of boats and bathers; and every spare space is covered with quotes – “Work like a captain, play like a pirate!” – and “Gone sailing!” signs. Given that half the village had actually gone sailing it felt just the right side of naff.In our room there was more seaside paraphernalia – above the pale blue tongue and groove on the bedroom walls, the dado rail supported a legion of wooden boats and birds, starfish and glass bottles of shells. We had views of the harbour from our balcony, bed and the freestanding copper bath – even the TV was screening webcam footage of the fishing boats zipping out to sea.Sitting on our balcony at sunset, watching the sky turn pink, a soundtrack of waves and screeching seagulls, it was all going swimmingly. Until dinner. Whoever is in charge of the food at Dorset-based brewery Hall & Woodhouse, which owns the Ness, needs a good talking to. Every aspect of our meal was bad – the menu a sorry selection of uninspiring pub food: potato skins, kebabs (“make it a main with an extra kebab!”), pineapple upside down cake. I had the seabass, which was overdone; my partner had an overcooked steak. If the food had been better, I might not have noticed the terrible music or our waiter calling us “guys” with each visit to our table.The brewery clearly thinks it can get away with churning out substandard food – the Ness’s idyllic setting makes it a popular spot; the night we stayed it had 140 people in the restaurant. But in a town that has , this prime venue is letting the side down.We retired to our room and, calmed by the comfortable bed and the sounds of the sea, I was prepared to forgive and forget. Until breakfast, which was woeful: a 1970s-style spread of tinned peaches, grapefruit and prunes, stale croissants, and a plate of sweaty cheese and ham. When my eggs finally arrived they were overdone. Until the chef is given free rein to create dishes using fresh ingredients, I’d recommend eating out in the evening and skipping breakfast.Directly behind the hotel is Ode cafe, sister to award-winning Ode restaurant in the village, where you will get decent coffee and a good breakfast with a similar view.Despite grey skies and rain in the morning, we decided to head out. I felt a pang of guilt that I’d left my five-year-old with his grandma because Shaldon is a brilliant place for kids. Directly behind the hotel is specialising in endangered species, and behind the zoo is the Smugglers’ Tunnel. Built in the 1860s, it cuts through the cliff to Ness cove, a red-sand beach. Now thoroughly soaked from the sheeting rain, we wandered through the village in search of tea, past the fudge shop, several pubs, snazzy that can be rented out, and the gift shop – selling, what else? “Gone sailing” signs.Shaldon is idyllic but has been mysteriously bypassed by the tourist trail. Once the Ness sorts out its food, it’ll be a great place for enjoying this gem of a seaside village.    Shaldon is known as a drinking village with a fishing problem. We have five pubs. My favourite is the  on the green. In the summer they put on a play for kids, , every Wednesday. The  is the oldest passenger ferry in England. It takes a few minutes and drops you off near the  in Teignmouth. Wander over to the pier where you can play the arcade games. As well as the sailing regatta in the last week of August, we have a on 1 August, where boats are decorated, and there are games, shows and food and drink on the beach.</content>
<class_name>Devon holidays,Hotels,England holidays,United Kingdom holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-12T12:00:16+0000</date>
<title>The Ness, Shaldon, Devon: hotel review</title>
<content>here was a dog splayed out in front of a crackling fire in the Ship Inn in Elie. We were at the seaside – in the quaintly grand Kingdom of Fife, facing Edinburgh across the Firth of Forth – out of season. Landlord Graham Bucknall poured us a generous gin and tonic (with artisan, Fife-based , of course – where doesn’t produce its own gin these days?).“Sometimes there are more dogs than people in the bar,” he laughed. “You shouldn’t come here unless your name’s Lassie,” a local propping up the bar quipped. You get the gist.This month, the inn opened six guest bedrooms – the one on the ground floor allows canine friends and has been dubbed the Dog Room. Perched on the window seat in my room, I watched the sun set as dog walkers zigzagged across the empty sand. A couple of Jack Russells streaked through the spray. I was glad mine was at home: she’d have been making her sandy self comfortable on the spotless white linen.The Ship Inn has far more going for it than dog bowls, of course. A flip-flop from the shore, it’s long been a local institution – but one that had become a little frayed around the edges until Graham and wife Rachel, owners of  (the AA’s best Scottish pub 2014) in Ratho near Edinburgh, took it on last year. (They also bagged the nearby , a rustic little sports bar overlooking the golf course: two for the price of one.)Rachel already knew Elie well – her parents had a holiday home in the village, where she spent childhood summers, and she and Graham had their first date here. Together they have transformed the pub, remodelling the bar, creating an upstairs dining area (mismatched chairs, wood-burner – no dogs allowed), with the chic bedrooms the latest addition. The rooms are split into three categories (one Admiral, three Captains, and two as yet unnamed sailors) but all are decent-size doubles. We were in Admiral, with its white-shuttered bay window in the eaves and sweeping view of the bay. All but one of the five upstairs rooms has a sea view and modern touches, such as the odd rolltop bath, monsoon showers and espresso machines.The inn’s colour scheme is a mix of duck-egg blue and sea green, and the decor is seafaring all the way, with old photos of ships, glass buoys and oars on the walls. Rachel scoured antique and junk shops for sea chests and old suitcases to act as bedside tables, and found the 1855 map of Elie (on the bar’s ceiling) in a library in Edinburgh and had it made into wallpaper.The inn boasts a cricket pitch, marked out for each match, on the sand. Fixtures are tide-dependent, and games end after the last wicket – or when the tide comes in. Man of the match is awarded in the beer garden, a terrace above the sea wall with chunky wooden tables, where they barbecue in summer. There are also plans for beach volleyball and rugby.The Ship’s food is not in the same league as the Bridge – it’s more hearty pub grub – but it champions Scottish seafood. Mackerel and pollock are caught off the coast here in summer, while langoustine, lobster and crab are landed in nearby Pittenweem harbour. We’d just missed the special – spaghetti alle vongole loaded with local surf clams – but my friend declared her smoked haddock crepe delicious. I was disappointed, however, with my stodgy and bland fishcake.A pretty, pastoral county, Fife has plenty to recommend it. The Fife Coastal Path curves along the clifftops from the Forth Bridge in the south to the Tay Bridge in the north, dipping in and out of picture-postcard fishing villages. There’s the medieval university (St Andrews), endless sandy beaches (remember the opening scene of Chariots of Fire?) and almost as many golf greens as green fields. There are big, blowsy US-style golf resorts and Michelin-starred restaurants (t for the best food in Fife) and posh farm shops such as , with its rustic steak barn and night markets.Surprisingly, what this area has lacked is a stylish place to stay to stop you hurrying home. The Ship Inn is somewhere you’d want to linger.  In St Monans village there is a traditional smokehouse with a rustic restaurant right on the harbour called the . Try the lightly smoked langoustine with chips and a bottle of rosé.  , one of Scotland’s national nature reserves, is enchanting. It’s . Take a picnic and enjoy the birdlife, including puffins, and breathtaking views. A great place for a bracing swim, a dog walk or for relaxing among sand dunes in the sun is blue-flag , a two-mile sweep of sand between Elie and St Andrews. </content>
<class_name>Scotland holidays,Hotels,Pubs,Restaurants,Edinburgh holidays,United Kingdom holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T11:00:26+0000</date>
<title>The Ship Inn, Elie, Fife, Scotland: hotel review</title>
<content>Cape Town is often described as being like a European city, as if this were something African metropolises should aspire to. In some ways it is not an entirely inaccurate description. The compact city centre, hemmed in by the harbour and the curve of Table Mountain, Lion’s Head and Signal Hill, is almost entirely walkable. Or, if you prefer, it’s also an easy trip on a  bus or a hop-on, hop-off open-top . The “grachts” – Buitengracht, Heerengracht, Keizersgracht – all sit above what were once freshwater canals, running from the mountain to the sea ( is the Dutch word for canal). The early Dutch-era street grid has been overlaid with later Victorian structures, and there are clusters of 20century brutal modernist buildings pointing towards the Foreshore (which is built on land reclaimed from the sea).Long Street has an assortment of bars, clubs, backpackers’ lodges, shops and restaurants. Just two blocks up, Bree Street, particularly between Buitensingel and Strand, is a little less frenetic and much more stylish. And there are hundreds of other little spots to be discovered, not just on the trio of Long, Bree and Loop Streets, but in the side alleys in between.The problem with labels like “European”, though, is that, in South Africa, they tend to function as a euphemism: rather than positioning Cape Town as a majority black, multicultural space in transition, it perpetuates the misconception that the settlement started in 1652 with the arrival of white colonisers. Organisations such as  and the  offer exciting glimpses of an alternative, integrated Cape Town of the future.Cape Town is trying to reconnect its myriad pasts and peoples, and it’s all the more wonderful (and welcoming) when seen as a whole rather than just picture-perfect postcards of exclusion. The independently run  is a small but superb centre of memory, that looks at both loss and restitution.East of the centre, the working-class, industrial areas of Woodstock and Salt River are also being transformed, but this time through parallel programmes of urban regeneration and the almost unavoidable knock-on of gentrification. Albert and Victoria Roads now have pockets of cool hipsterdom: artisan coffees, design houses, art galleries. As a starting point, the  is an enjoyable and central mixed-use spot. For those interested in graffiti and street art, Woodstock boasts a number of rather glorious murals – but those looking for something a little more authentic might want to try one of wheatpaste artist Grant Jurius’s  of the Westridge neighbourhood, in Mitchells Plain, to the south.There aren’t enough places to play jazz in Cape Town.  in the Observatory neighbourhood is a little underground kind of venue. We used to play there when we left university – it was the kind of bohemia we were looking for: a place to be frantic, crazy, experimental. We’d play four or five nights a week for virtually no money. If there were 20 people, the entire place was full. But it intrinsically had this creative nature, with a lot of free-thinkers. (formerly The Mahogany Room) on Buitenkant Street is still standing after three years. It was opened by some of my colleagues and friends, as a place for music, by musicians. There’s a certain charm if you are an artist performing there. It is set up for us to do our thing and experiment, without being burdened by crowd responses as in other more formal places. The very nature of this music we call jazz is in the smaller spaces. Having played around the world, in more so-called formal settings, these kinds of places create energy and good vibrations. It helps the music, and feeds us, so we can play some crazy stuff.There’s a sort of University of Cape Town jazz students’ night at the  in Rondebosch. There’s quite a vibe there, with lots of students, and people who actually don’t like jazz, spending an evening enjoying it. It’s interesting that, when it comes to improvisational or jazz music, you still find a lot of young people in the audiences in South Africa. It kind of says: jazz in South Africa has urban appeal where in other parts of the world it’s regarded as a “classic” form.The annual  is one of the top three jazz festivals in the world, but this city has a rich jazz history beyond the harbour and the foreshoresuch as , in Gugulethu, and  in Langa. Local tour operator Coffeebeans Routes offers a , which actually takes you to musicians’ houses. There is so much love for jazz in these communities. To hear the sound of Cape Town, listen to Abdullah Ibrahim’s Mannenberg. I love that piece, as irritatingly famous as it is. I always come back to it after a period when I haven’t heard it for a long time. He has made subsequent recordings, but I’m talking about the original one, from 1977. Man, that’s got that thing. Whatever that thing is. It’s best to only buy and eat legal, sustainably caught produce: check this out using the  . I usually get fresh fish from  in Newlands and Lakeside.  in Woodstock also has an amazing offering. For classic fried fish and chips, go to  at the end of the Hout Bay harbour. Just watch out for the seagulls: if you don’t hold on to your chips, they’ll come and steal them. I wouldn’t normally send visitors to the shopping mall at the , but  restaurant is outside, right on the water’s edge with a magnificent view of the mountain, and makes excellent Belgian-style .  Sea Point is coming up as an area again, because it’s still central but has lower rents. And nothing beats  on Main Road, which has been going since 1998 and is perfect for pizza and good family vibes. Nearby  is a French bistro-tapas style place, and , further south on Regent Road, offers a classic grill, done really well.  I like to drink  beers: it’s a South African brand, though not brewed locally. The local craft beer scene is pretty good andgetting better, but it lacks consistency. The  in Glencairn is a biker bar for everyone, and a great place for a beer. It’s the perfect stop after a ride around the peninsula. The  in Ndabeni makes its own beers, but I go for its Texan-style BBQ: brisket, pork belly, lamb, and all the sides. The nice thing about working where I do, on Bree Street, is that you can get absolutely anything – batteries, tyres, a car service, shoes, clothes, steak and chips …  at number 92 is unbelievable, if you can get a table (it doesn’t accept bookings). When visiting a city, one of the first things I do is find an art gallery for the perspective it provides on that culture. In Cape Town we have some excellent contemporary places, such as  and , but these mostly focus on single artist shows rather than a broad contextual sweep. I like the , at Welgemeend in the Gardens district. It’s small and old-fashioned, and you get a spread of the early South African aesthetic through artists such as Irma Stern, Erik Laubscher and JH Pierneef.  Michael Chandler is an artist-decorator who takes on the traditional Cape aesthetic with the eye of a romantic young man. His design studio-shop-gallery, , is a treasure trove, with well-selected paintings, knicknacks and furniture alongside his own ceramics, his handmade Cape of Good Soap bars of soap, and greeting cards cut out like Cape Dutch gables. The style is very much colonial-historical but I love the contemporary way he is claiming it.  The  (the next one will be in 2017) is an impressive showcase of high design that skirts the intersection with fine art. ’s gallery has regular shows of Guild-featured designers at its Woodstock premises. There’s wonderful street design happening all over the place, but Capetonians see it so often that it’s become part of the urban familiar. However, on the corner of Camp and Upper Orange streets, I sometimes see a man who makes life-size, beautifully constructed animal trophy heads out of cane. They are truly spectacular, and his neighbour, who constructs tiny Land Rovers and motorbikes from drinks cans, is also a showstopper.  works with southern African craftspeople, selling a dizzying array of small decorative objects in its stores. Margaret Woermann, who started the shop, has a collection of her spectacular pressed-flower creations hanging in the tea room at the . The , 50km out of town on the N2 past Strand, is also interesting for the fine woven African rugs it produces.  I love the places in Cape Town where sheer persistence can yield hard-won treasures. Gilles de Moyencourt’s  in Woodstock is crammed with extraordinary things, from African artefacts to Victorian parasols to 1950s garden furniture. The weekly car boot sale at the  is wedged between the highway, the railway line and the ocean, and can be full of treasures … or just loads of Tupperware and old pliers. But it’s also quite a nice way to see a cross-section of Cape Town’s residents. On a good day, you can discover modernist light fittings or Swedish dining chairs. And you can always be guaranteed to find a boerewors roll or vetkoek (fried bread).  We’re constantly faced with aerial and spatial perspectives of Cape Town from one side. The viewing deck on the top of Lookout Hill in Khayelitsha township to the south-east gives a different angle. It puts Khayelitsha’s challenges in perspective and allows you to see how fragmented even this part of the city is: it’s not homogenous. For a look at urban use and design, visit the  designed by , or the new  housing project by Urban ThinkTank.  Also in that part of town is , in an old cement factory. The abandoned space has been repurposed into an entrepreneurial and recreational/retail hub. I would also visit the Philippi Horticultural Area, a 3,000-hectare site west of Jakes Gerwel Drive that produces 50% of the city’s fruit and veg, but is . The farm at  in more central Tamboerskloof, is another interesting area because it’s not legally “allowed” to be used the way it is used – developers want to build on this part of the city where land is valuable. There is a small garden there, and a food market.  The  in Green Point has a bad reputation for all the wrong reasons. It’s an architectural and engineering marvel, and the argument has been reduced to “how do we make more money?” I compare the new stadium with what I experienced growing up: an old athletics stadium that was falling apart. I’m excited about how the new building, both for the structure itself and for surrounding areas, will become a more multi-purpose space, possibly including a museum, shops, markets, offices, restaurants and more. The  is where people from all over the city can get some sense of common ground. It’s designed to handle five times as many people as it does, although this gets tested in the last week of the December holiday season, when people spill out into a space they feel they can claim. .  has a small (less than a hectare) but very well put-together indigenous garden, with examples of local vegetation types as well as medicinal and useful plants.  is also worth a visit, especially in spring (between August and October, depending on the rain). The flowers can be quite spectacular, which is incredible given its past: it served as a military campand cricket fields.  The  in the northern suburbs (north-east of the city centre) is underappreciated. It contains one of the biggest remaining intact pieces of , a critically endangered vegetation type, andyou will always see something if you keep your eyes open – again the spring bulbs are a highlight. The smell of imphepho () and wild rosemary () is always prominent. From the top of the hill there is a panoramic view over Cape Town from a really unusual angle. You can see Table Mountain, Robben Island, planes heading for Cape Town International on the Cape Flats, and into the Boland. The northern Blouberg coast also offers great views of Table Mountain and interesting coastal vegetation. There are a couple of nice beacheswithin the , north of Big Bay.  For hiking, the , 50km out of town in Somerset West, is very peaceful and safe. The trails are well-marked, and easy for self-guided walks. There are places to picnic, as it’s very family-orientated. Again there’s lots to see, especially if you walk up a bit – there are ponds where you can find wetland birds and, even further up, there is quite nice  (indigenous shrubland).  Bird-watchers should not miss  sewage works on the Cape Flats to the north. Despite the name, the former waste treatment ponds are home to a rich variety of local birdlife. The coastal road (R44) from Somerset West is very beautiful, and leads to the fantastic , which is within an hour-and-a-half of Cape Town’s city centre. The Kogelberg is considered the heart of the  kingdom because of the sheer numbers and beauty of the plants and landscapes.There’s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations: from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to  and their favourite experiences in Cape Town. These are just a few, .While Table Mountain and the Waterfront are must-dos in Cape Town, it’s worth also taking a stroll through the Company Gardens and the old part of the Business District, too. The reward is you get to see great architecture, as well as the peaceful landscaped heart of the city. There is a great little guesthouse nearby: the has beautiful comfortable rooms, at a good price (doubles from £42) and a nice breakfast, too. Just a few doors down the road is the  cafe for the best flat white we had in the city.Head to Cape Town’s hipster neighbourhood of Woodstock for breakfast and coffee before a day exploring the city. Head to the , a village of shops, cafes and restaurants showcasing South African products. Order breakfast at  and they’ll bring you a coffee from the  next door. The food is delicious, and it’s a great spot for people watching.</content>
<class_name>Cape Town holidays,South Africa holidays,City breaks,Africa holidays,Cultural trips,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-18T06:01:25+0000</date>
<title>The alternative city guide to Cape Town, South Africa</title>
<content>A ripple of rejuvenation is running through Port Elizabeth (PE), an upswing that, in part, has been cultivated by the city’s youth who have renewed hope in PE’s potential, reinventing South Africa’s hidden gem as a post-industrial cross-cultural hotspot.Experience the city by heading south along the 5km-long beachfront promenade crossing the Humewood and Summerstrand neighbourhoods. Take a dip at the best swimming locations in South Africa: Kings Beach, Hobie Beach, and the slightly wilder Pollock Beach. As with California’s Venice Beach this strip is a hive of activity, with runners, ironmen, cyclists and ocean-lovers all comfortably staking their claim on the stretch of ample strand.The area known as Central is the museum and gallery district, the public art epicentre, and high-traffic Afro-cosmopolitan creative zone. Neighbouring Richmond Hill is a gastronome’s delight.To the east are Port Elizabeth’s townships with their vibrant music, street life and  (Zulu for “burnt meat”/ barbecues). They feature a thumping underground music scene, which originally nurtured jazz greats such as  and legends . It’s best to visit these areas with a trusted local by your side.Always a migrant city, its fortunes and failures have been tied to industry, maritime and motor, and the people who flowed in and out. In the absence of any defining landmarks, it is the city’s people who shape its contours. Some of South Africa’s greatest and most gruesome moments played out in or near PE: the game-changing arrival of the 1820 British settlers who founded the town; the launch of the 1950s defiance campaign in New Brighton; apartheid; the first-ever black rugby clubs; and industrial revolutions.Port Elizabeth is a blue-collar town with white-collar aspirations. For a while there was boom, through the middle decades of the 20th century when the motor industry, in Ford and Volkswagen, drove development. But global corporates eventually reacted to pressure over apartheid and when Ford pulled out in the 1980s, the city stumbled, becoming the “Ghost on the Coast”.The historical inner city was abandoned, as residents fled to a sprawling suburbia and leaving behind urban decay. Then, in 2007, the Mandela Bay Development Agency’s revitalisation strategy saw the city claw back its former glory, building-by-building, street-by-street.Now PE is the place to meet people to collaborate with, and to test, incubate and play with ideas. It lives up to its nickname, the “friendly city”. Everything’s on tap: beaches, bars, music, art, wacky people, photographic spaces and places, bush and nature, an outdoor lifestyle to revel in – and a perpetual but not uneasy clash of culture. It’s like a washed-out, weird kaleidoscope full of heyday and hope.PE is a cradle for creativity. Experiences here are actually unmediated; they come in their raw format. PE has recording studios, indie bands, an energetic township music scene, and a deep musical history. Some of South Africa’s best artists are from PE – such as Zonke, Heavy K and Zolani from world-renowned . They were all nurtured here.One of the hottest outings is the  (UBH) sessions: a nomadic all-night gathering, from 6pm to 6am, with a long lineup of the city’s musicians, live art, spoken word, and performances in the Kwazakhele neighbourhood. It’s a symbol of the subterranean nature of much of the music scene in the city. In a similar vein, the bi-monthly  are shaping the collaborative spirit of the underground.And there are bigger stages for the city’s musicians, such as the indie favourites  and the , in a building managed by production company Fly Piggy Fly.Then there is the  in Newton Park, which also hosts , and the riverside shabby-chic eatery and stage, the  in Baakens Valley.In the townships, the best jams can be found in , which is famous for honing local jazz talent and offering a (slang for location) stage to global stars.  in KwaDwesi is the safe space for experimental DJs to sharpen their needles before becoming bigger brands. These trendy township spaces have regular gigs, jam sessions and open-mic nightsIn addition to all this there’s a growing festival scene merging art and music. In March the city’s irie sub-culture converges at the One Blood festival at the Grand and in June there is the , which takes over the streets of the suburb.No matter what you want, there are lots of scenes to tap into. Our townships are vibrant with art, music and dancers. There are so many supremely talented creative people here waiting to be discovered. PE has never been a food capital but it’s an exciting place to be right now. We’re seeing restaurants push the boundaries and, for the first time, PE is experiencing a foodie culture of food trucks, pop-up diners and local markets, such as the monthly : an alfresco celebration of food, artisanal crafts and a great place to meet genuine PE people. It is unexplored foodie territory and there is a hunger here, excuse the pun, for the more diverse offerings that we see in bigger cities, such as Cape Town.A perfect PE dining day would include a starter at  – I love the wild oysters; straight out of the ocean on to your plate, they’re the best I’ve ever had. Grab a main at the laid-back , with Thai goddess Natti cooking up authentic delights, the spicy tom yum is, well yum, just don’t order it hot, or you will cry. Natti and her crew often make trips to Thailand for some stash of secret ingredients, and she grows some produce in her back garden. It has a bring-your-own booze policy, which I love. For dessert, there is no place better than  overlooking Hobie Beach and Shark Rock pier, where crêpes suzette are served the old-fashioned way flambéed at your table.  is a French-style cafe and deli across the road from the historic cricket ground St Georges Park in Central (which, in 1889, staged the first test match between South Africa and England). It serves breakfast, burgers, brunch, coffee and soul food. , which has branches in Richmond Hill and in Bay West Mall (western suburbs), offers a creative union of Asian and other cuisines, and about the best sushi in South Africa. Its leading light is , a star chef who returned to PE to raise his family. He has just launched . A must is the roasted bone marrow with black truffle and bruschetta (about £4). is a hole-in-the-wall no-frills Portuguese restaurant, just off Russell Road in Richmond Hill, with juicy chicken and prawns served straight from the grill. Walmer-based  is the perfect, laid-back daytime suburban spot, great for a coffee and breakfast. The  in Walmer offers high-quality free-range meat and excellent pork pies and scotch eggs.  is Port Elizabeth’s oldest coffee roaster, churning out fresh brews from its giant old brass roaster every morning; its aromas permeating the suburb of Central.  is an intimate dumpling and noodle bar just off Stanley Street in Richmond Hill; it’s ideal for light bites and a cosy, delicious dine and dash.There’s no shortage of talent in PE. For decades it was defined by absence rather than abundance – until the launch of a pioneering public art programme, which saw city money pour into the waning creative industry. Investment spurred a full-on revival of the arts scene, a gallery district and a brimming outdoor gallery of street art in Central and Humewood.The starting point of the city’s creative rebirth is  – a collection of 67 public art works honouring the 67 years Nelson Mandela dedicated to achieving South Africa’s freedom. The greater city is also named after him, Nelson Mandela Bay. There are some iconic pieces, such as the  and Konrad Geel, but we really revel in those parts that force people to go deeper into the city. On St Mary’s Terrace, you will find the powerful , a statement about the lost generation who fought oppression. This piece, our mural at the bus terminal and ’s frieze at the  memorial, compels you to connect with the less sanitised areas of the city.As part of the greater Nelson Mandela Bay Arts Journey, we recommend these galleries:  is a community-centred gallery and studio space profiling up-and-coming artists, such as young printmakers . The ’s permanent collection includes the 67 Beaded Quotes – 67 beaded works of art representing a year and a quote by Nelson Mandela – alongside workshop spaces and the colourful Little Theatre. Check out the unusual  at the , but the gallery is also an art deco nugget, designed by Gertruida Brinkman, who in 1932 became the first woman to qualify as an architect in South Africa. And the  houses the city’s permanent regional collection of art, craft and design produced in the Eastern Cape. We are continually inspired by the younger creatives, these kids are braver. The scene is still growing, through moments of boom and bust. There are great formal venues, but also informal collaborative ones emerging such as , art-meets-music gigs at , and ’s new incarnation as a pop-up gallery.The city is our canvas, especially the clash of cultures in the city centre. If you just pause and talk to people, you are going to hear and see some cool stuff. It is real here – full of personality. We dig the pigeons. I once watched a guy stop his car for a pigeon crossing the road. That’s PE, the rough edges make it.There are three things I love: food, coffee, and bicycles. In PE I’ve had forays into each of these industries but, so far, the best has been bicycles. Donkin Bike Co is right in the thick of things in Central, the transit corridor. You see the world differently from the seat of a bike. It’s all about being able to stop and engage. You get to witness life in slow motion, with people, taxis, cars all whizzing by as you hold centre among it all. I like to break conventions using my bike.PE is easygoing. Anywhere is 15 minutes away, the outdoor lifestyle is absurdly beautiful, the beaches are amazing and fairly quiet. A lot of the city remains untapped and under-explored and discovery is on your doorstep. To experience the city’s many faces try these routes:. For a proper urban route, start on the Donkin Reserve, cruising down the Voting Line pathway, the site of the annual Donkin Downhill Dash longboard event, and the public art Route 67. Continue down onto Govan Mbeki Street, past vendors plying their trade, colossal highways and underpasses, all the while weaving past cars and taxis rushing to get people to and from work. Coast through the back streets of North End, this weird suburb where industrial meets lower-middle-income suburbia. End with a  (barbecue) at the , next to the impressive Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.. Start at the PE harbour and watch tugboats hauling in car carriers and cruise ships. Pass through the old railway yard heading down towards King’s Beach, circling its wide parking lot. Take a spin around the skate park and along the promenade under the palms. Stop for a quick dip at Denvil’s Beach, then open up for a long cruise toward the iconic Shark Rock Pier for an ice-cream at the Red Windmill. After another two kilometres down the boulevard is the  roadhouse for a tasty burger and shake to-go. Tackle the  and watch the surfers crest waves at Pollock Beach. The route becomes untamed towards Pine Lodge, perfect for a live music jam at , and the gravelly trip out to the Cape Recife point and lighthouse is surely worth the journey. Re-route with a stopover at surfers’ retreat .. Port Elizabeth is home to Africa’s only , with this route offering a gruelling experience. Start at the park at Boundary Lane and cruise down Seaview Road, stopping at the antique store . For a free bike safari, pedal parallel to .Join us at Donkin Bike Co for a regular night ride, too, to see the city by dusk. After a long stretch in the saddle, there is no better place to grab a beer than  in Richmond Hill.Port Elizabeth, where there’s a lot of tension between people and spaces, is an explorer and photographer’s dream. I love the melancholy of the forgotten areas in Central, those that haven’t been gentrified, especially the abandoned buildings behind Donkin Row. Cities tend to reveal themselves in the areas that are kind of out of sight, sitting uneasily next to the cool new zones, such as the Donkin Village.The standout pockets of architectural heritage are historically and photographically intriguing – check out the , City Hall and . And then there are houses – Richmond Hill and Central are full of character homes: settler, Victorian and art deco architecture on every corner. , a tiny eclectic record and bookshop on Westbourne Road, is a place to meet random characters and to flip through vinyls.The industrial hinterland shows the real contrasts. Starting in North End and pushing flush against the well-known New Brighton and Kwazakhele townships, you encounter old rusted shells, dilapidated mill houses, and the megalithic Goodyear, Eveready and PPC (cement) factories.  and New Brighton are vibrant, and best seen with someone who knows the beat of the area.The beachfront shifts between Santa Barbara-esque venues and industrial wasteland, with manganese mountains meeting the endless golden King’s Beach – making for great photography. Shooting here is excellent – and people are friendly and may well invite you into their lives freely. There are regular Instawalks to explore with curious locals. Port Elizabeth remains somewhat off the beaten track, yet elicits the vertigo of being on the edge of something great – especially at the .There’s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations: from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share Instagram pictures and some favourite experiences in Port Elizabeth. These are just a few with .While the Friendly City is happy to open its arms to visitors both local and foreign, there is one area they like to keep to themselves. A15-minute drive from the airport, lies the tranquil village of , with its quaint pub, , a nature reserve (also the game reserve) and one of the world’s best beaches. While tourists sun themselves on the more popular Kings and Hobie beaches, locals like to retreat to the beauty of this area, where you will often have the beach more or less to yourself. For a base while you explore this stunning area, an excellent place to stay is the  (£18.55pp a night, room only, Lovemore Park). At the lodge there is varied accommodation, including a pet-friendly unit, and the Coach House, an authentic 1966 South African railway coach, which has been carefully restored. Relaxing after a hard day’s snorkelling with a glass of wine in hand, and staying amid countryside close to the beating heart of the city is wonderful.The tidal pool on this beach attracts a lot of people, especially those couples with younger children who are not proficient swimmers.</content>
<class_name>Port Elizabeth holidays,South Africa holidays,Africa holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-25T06:01:25+0000</date>
<title>The alternative city guide to Port Elizabeth, South Africa</title>
<content>his is a big year for Ireland and its capital. The country is preparing to mark the , a rebellion that culminated in Irish independence, and Dublin is set to be the centre of the commemoration. There have been debates over how 1916 should be celebrated, but O’Connell Street’s neoclassical General Post Office, the de facto headquarters of the insurrection, will be at the centre of things, , from 29 March.The Dublin of 2016 is a city that feels optimistic but also a little shell-shocked. Eight years ago, the capital was financially crippled, but there was a silver lining in the form of a booming independent arts scene. Today, Dublin is getting its finances back on track, and DIY culture appears to have had its day. Boom-time cranes are back, as developments in the docklands area move on apace; the construction of a cross-city tramline has seen large parts of town excavated, and there are rumblings that College Green will be pedestrianised to make way for a grand plaza. And as property prices rise, some say the closing down of art spaces, such as Block T and The Joinery, is the work of a city rediscovering its Celtic Tiger strength.Amid all this tumult, something exciting has emerged. Off the radar as a culinary destination a mere decade ago, Dublin is home to a growing number of quality restaurants, casual eateries and cafes. Top-notch Mexican, Brazilian, Korean and modern takes on Irish food are now commonplace. Dubliners are also getting pretty snobby about their coffee, which is no mean feat in a city once famous for milky tea and dark stout.Of course, some things are perennially true of this place: its pubs and theatres are world class, its Georgian squares are elegant, and the faux-traditional eastern end of Temple Bar is an overpriced tourist trap. The city is also famously compact – though visitors seeking laid-back charm are often surprised to find that life here moves at a brisk pace. This is, after all, a metropolis with a regional population approaching two million, huddled around a city centre that feels more like a large town. and the  might get most of the press, but the Royal Hibernian Academy is one of the city’s best art spaces. Home to works by artists such as  and , the building itself – which stands in stark, modernist contrast to its Georgian terrace neighbours – is worth the visit alone. The academy’s original home was Academy House, on the north side of the city, but the building and most of its contents were destroyed by fire during the 1916 rising. The exhibition , opening 22 March (until 11 June), marks the rebellion with a look at the Academy’s devastating loss of their original building and how it survived without an exhibition hall for nearly 70 years.  Small, fun and daring, the Science Gallery has been a city favourite since opening in 2008. Exhibitions are pitched as a blend of science and art, and have explored everything from trauma to failed inventions. A recent show horrified and enthralled Dubliners in equal measure, when its centrepiece turned out to be cheeses cultivated from bacteria found on parts of the human body. Housed in Trinity College Dublin’s Naughton Institute, the team behind the gallery not only put on some of Ireland’s most exciting exhibitions, it also has the world in its sights, with hubs in London, Melbourne and Bangalore set to open in the next two years. The cafe also serves some of the city’s best coffee. Situated in an imposing Georgian town house overlooking Saint Stephen’s Green, the Little Museum tells the story of 20th-century Dublin through a collection of donated ephemera – everything from models of one-time Dublin landmark Nelson’s Pillar to a room dedicated to U2. Brainchild of food critic and former magazine editor Trevor White, it regularly hosts exhibitions on unusual aspects of Dublin life, with guides bringing the material to life. Look out for an offbeat comic strip telling the story of the 1916 rising by artist .  A notable exception to the tourist traps of Temple Bar, the Library Project is part-art book store, part-library for all things photographic. This might not be the best place to pick up a tome on Henri Cartier-Bresson; rather, it’s a repository of almost 1,000 books from independent publishers all over the world. Situated on Temple Bar’s eponymous main drag, it’s just minutes away from the . The narrow river Liffey is as much a part of Dublin life as its packed pubs and, with 23 bridges across it in all, no trip would be complete without a stroll across at least two or three. In the heart of town, must-sees are the famously wide O’Connell bridge, the Venetian-style , and sweeping , with its characteristic seahorse lamps. Further east is the strikingly modern (if unloved by some) , designed by Spanish architect . Heading west is Calatrava’s other Dublin offering, the James Joyce Bridge, and much further west is the arching , which feels as though it is in the countryside. Dublin’s so-called Chinatown is really a mix of Chinese and Korean restaurants, bars and cafes that sprung up on the north side’s tumbledown Parnell Street East in the boom years of the 1990s and early 2000s. More recently, Vietnamese restaurants have joined them. Many of these eateries occupy buildings that were once pubs, and Hophouse, considered one of the best in the city, is a fun mix of Korean restaurant and Irish bar. This may not be the fanciest place in town, but it’s an exciting and authentic blend of Dublin old and new. The  (fried pork, €13.50) is a delight, as is the salmon  (mixed rice) at €10.90. Delahunt offers modern takes on Irish food in what was once a well-known pub. And while the decor here is simple – the original Edwardian-era bar has been retained – the dishes are endlessly inventive. Of note is the coddle, a traditional Dublin broth usually made from leftover pork sausages and onions, but appearing at Delahunt as a carefully balanced and richly flavoured bouillon of homemade sausages, braised bacon, cabbage, potato and bacon broth (€9). The roast rump of beef with potato cake, shallot, onion rings and bone marrow (€25) is equally fine.It’s hard to single out one place in Dublin as being home to the city’s best coffee and high-end nibbles, because haunts like  (32 Grand Canal St)  (50 South William St),  (153 Capel St),  (54 Middle Abbey St) and Kaph (31 Drury St) are all eligible for the title. Urbanity, one of the newest arrivals on the scene, is causing quite a fuss. This haunt is all pared-down minimalism with slick wooden tables and exposed, industrial-style ceilings. Sitting on Smithfield Square, it’s just minutes from Stoneybatter, an area being dubbed Dublin’s answer to Williamsburg in New York. The owners roast coffee beans onsite and the menu offers everything from Berber eggs (€10) to frittata (€10).  Dublin has a sizeable Brazilian community, and this place has a reputation for being the most authentic of a slew of restaurants catering to its tastes. While the interior is decorated in the baroque style found in the colonial houses of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, the seven-course, set-price menu (€100) offers foods from every corner of the country. The  (grilled prawns with coconut milk, tomatoes, cashews, chilli and ground peanuts) and the  (dried salted cod with olives, pea puree, peppers and potatoes) are particularly memorable.  As classically Dublin as any pub can be, this Victorian-era charmer has wood-panelled snugs, chandeliers and, of course, the famous wall-mounted stag’s head. It’s one of the few Dublin bars that attracts both locals and tourists, and cited by some as the place to grab the city’s best Guinness. It’s dark and elegant at ground level, cosy and unfussy on the first floor; and the cellar bar downstairs is home to a  which attracts some of the best names on the Dublin circuit. Dublin’s hippest new bar takes its name from a long-gone London chemist-cum-swinging-1960s-market (featured in Stanley Kubrick’s A Clockwork Orange and name-checked in the Rolling Stones’ You Can’t Always Get What You Want). The moniker isn’t just a straight-up homage, though – this was the site of a bustling chemists in the 1900s. South Great George’s Street has long been the centre of Dublin’s creative quarter – markets, music shops, architects’ offices – and this bar certainly delivers on the inventive. Offering cocktails like the Penicillin (whiskey, honey, ginger and absinthe, €12.50) and the Truth Behind Augustus (rye, Amaro Meletti, Fernet-Branca and grapefruit, €11.50), the aesthetic here is warm and minimalist with exposed brick walls and marble-topped tables. Capel Street is one of the city’s most eclectic areas, with furniture stores, hip cafes, a famous gay bar (), Korean restaurants and toy shops sitting side by side. In fact, the locale might be called Dublin’s biggest open secret – not many tourists venture here. The Black Sheep is a stylish but unfussy craft-beer emporium run by the Galway Bay Brewery. It serves ales and lagers from all over the world, including Dubbel (€7) and Rauchbier Marzen (€6.50); while the pub-grub menu offers a great pulled-pork sandwich (€8.25) at lunch, and chicken, chorizo and butterbean stew (€12) at dinner.  Designed by Portuguese architect , this hotel is meant to look as if it’s carved out of Irish rock, but some say it seems more like an exercise in Celtic Tiger-era extravagance. Either way, The Marker is without equal in this city of architecturally restrained lodgings. Located in the heart of Dublin’s so-called silicon docks, the hotel’s neighbours include Daniel Libeskind-designed  and the sleek European headquarters of tech giants Google and Facebook. Rooms here are expansive (and expensive), with an angular, geometric feel, and its rooftop bar offers some of the best views in the city – on a clear day, the Dublin and Wicklow mountains can be seen, gently punctuating the skyline. This hostel offers everything from cheap, breezy shared rooms to design-focused single and twin rooms and higher-end deluxe rooms. Its bar draws Dubliners and visitors alike, and often hosts DJs with local kudos. The restaurant serves a mean burger, too. It’s only a minute’s walk from the  and a short tram ride from the . , The petite dame of the museum and gallery district – the grande dame being the Shelbourne – Buswells is a Dublin institution that offers restrained Georgian opulence in the heart of town. Rooms are compact and well-appointed, with those on the lower floors boasting higher ceilings, as is the case with nearly all of Dublin’s 18th-century town houses. It’s right beside the parliament of Ireland’s , the , the , the archaeology branch of the , and the . Reserved and understated on the outside, unapologetically hip on the inside, The Dean blasted onto Dublin’s hotel scene just two years ago. Rooms here look a little as though they’ve been transported from a Brooklyn brownstone and are given monikers such as “modpods” and “Hi-Fis”. Each is fitted out with distressed-seeming wooden floors, tangerine Smeg fridges and Marshall speakers. Sophie’s, the rooftop restaurant with adjoining bar, has views over the south side of the city, and the decor is beautiful. The hotel is right in the heart of the south side’s nightclub core, an area that’s lively almost every night of the week. For some, this is a godsend; for others, not so much. </content>
<class_name>Dublin holidays,City breaks,Short breaks,European Union holidays,Museums,Food and drink,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-19T07:00:03+0000</date>
<title>Dublin city guide: what to see, plus the best hotels, bars and restaurants</title>
<content>ith long, leafy boulevards, Chiang Mai presents an alluring alternative to the Thai capital, Bangkok. Instead of traffic-choked urban sprawl, travellers find a picturesque downtown easily navigated on foot, where the air is clean and the climate mercifully cool. A short bike or scooter ride out of the town leads to a densely rainforested countryside interspersed with waterfalls. Since the local airport received an upgrade in 2014, more regional flights have been heading to this serene city, making it cheaper and easier to reach.The old town, inside its moat, is an extraordinary vision. Here amid the 30-odd temple spires, barefoot monks in flame-coloured robes collect alms in the morning and street vendors sell their wares by night.Contrary to what all the English-language signs offering yoga courses and trekking tours might have you believe, the ancient capital city harbours a vibrant contemporary scene. A spate of new galleries, co-working spaces and artsy cafes are giving creative people space to showcase their work.Unlike many modern Asian cities, where such harbingers of gentrification have pushed traditional shops and street food hawkers out of the picture, Chiang Mai’s younger generation continues to embrace its older establishments. Bare-bones eateries serving fiery, northern dishes like  (minced meat salad) brimming with mint, dried spices and fresh blood, or , an herbaceous grilled sausage perfumed with lemongrass and served with fingerfuls of sticky rice, still stand proudly next to modern cafes and bars.To visit the city’s modern side, head just beyond the centre to studenty Nimmanhaemin Road, with its boutiques, galleries, coffee shops and myriad restaurants. The pace of life may have speeded up in recent years as the city’s grown, but Chiang Mai is still a city of quiet charms, best absorbed at a leisurely pace.Although Thai massage can be a shock to first-timers, the after-effects of being forcibly contorted into pretzel shapes can be wondrous. Pick up a few tricks from the pros by registering at one of the training centres in town. (courses from £36) in the Old Medicine Hospital stands out for its comprehensive courses in history, concept and technique. More than 20,000 students, half of them foreigners, have studied there since it opened in 1962. A full introductory course lasts five days, but there’s a two-day foot massage course or a one-day herbal hot compress course, using healing herbs gathered in a cloth bundle and applied to pressure points.If you’d rather improve your culinary prowess, there are dozens of cooking schools in the city. A lesson at boutique hotel  (£46pp) includes a trip to Thanin market and instruction by a top chef. For a more budget option, the (£24, including food and transfers) offers hands-on, small-group classes with individual cooking stations. Participants stop at the nearby Ruam Chok market before visiting an organic farm to stroll in the fields and take a crash course in ingredients such as jackfruit, holy basil and bitter eggplant, then get to work pounding curry paste with a mortar and pestle.Selfie-snapping tourists have come under fire in recent years for posting pictures of themselves cuddling tiger cubs or riding elephants. But there are still plenty of ways to get up close and personal with nature ethically. , some 40 miles from Chiang Mai, has been rescuing and rehabilitating pachyderms since the 1990s. Visitors can spend the day feeding, swimming with and walking alongside the contented herd in their 200-acre habitat. Got a little extra time and cash? Consider a week-long  helping with reforestation, animal vaccinations and farming. A one-day package costs £46; the full week, with Journey to Freedom, costs £275, with full-board.Chiang Mai fosters a small but steadily growing community of artists and designers. Join the city’s creative crowd any evening at , a hip space decked out in exposed brick that hosts everything from poetry readings to indie concerts. Or check out exhibitions spotlighting local talent at the new  in Baan Kang Wat, an artists’ village and craft showcase near Wat Ram Poeng.  (1/3 Padat Road) is a recently opened offshoot of the , on a bend of the Ping river south of the old town.Chiang Mai’s outdoor bazaars are a riot of sounds, and smells. When dusk falls, prowl for  (grilled chicken),  (pork shank braised with star anise) and  (rice noodles with curry) on every evening. Pick up silver jewellery and other handicrafts on on a Saturday and save a few hours on Sunday to browse on . For a market with more locals and fewer bootleg DVDs, rise early and go to the smalleron Moon Muang Road.One glance at the regal  (the temple of the lion Buddha) explains the crowds it attracts. But don’t miss , also in the old centre, where visitors can chat casually with monks about Buddhism, life, the universe and everything. Established in the late 13th century,  is not only impressive as the city’s oldest temple, but also for its two immense Buddha statues. One of the most revered shrines is across the Ping river: , part of Wiang Kum Kam, the ruins of the Lanna empire’s original capital. At the temples, remember to dress modestly.After a few days in the city, the lure of the jungle beyond is hard to resist. Virtually every guesthouse will try to convince you to go on a trek, and with so many similar itineraries – rafting, elephants, hill tribe encounters – picking the right one can be a challenge.  (two-day treks from £67) is a socially responsible tour operator that has been organising treks in south-east Asia since 2000. Private treks are available, but group tours never exceed 10. Or try (two-day trek from £62), which has been leading tours for two decades.By day, this swish spot serves mild-mannered staples like spaghetti and salads, but by night, chef Panupol “Black” Bulsawan offers a high-end chef’s table, starting at 6pm. The rotating seafood-heavy menu might feature seared scallops with a wasabi-spiked mango sauce or other faintly Japanese-tinged surprises. Shoebox-sized it may be, but this converted teak house is worth seeking out for its thoughtful comfort food made with local, mostly organic produce. Curl up with a mug of dark, toasty  (sticky rice) tea for about £1, and a bowl of Karen-style  (chilli paste, £2), with sticky rice and vegetables for dipping. Farm-to-table produce is front and centre at this neighbourhood joint, which throws occasional pop-up dinners in the grounds where its food is grown. Much of the charcuterie and cheeses are made in-house and the selection of aromatic teas is not to be missed. The best part is the day-long breakfast, which might consist of powder sugar-kissed “Dutch baby” pancakes (£4) or French toast with maple bacon and sausage (£3). With a former head chef of the ultra-luxe Dhara Dhevi (previously a Mandarin Oriental) at the helm, it’s little wonder that the menu here is on the ambitious (and pricey) side. Arthit Dissunont or “Chef O” shows finesse with western classics such as veal  with saffron risotto (£15), but shines most with inventive Thai fusion such as lamb shank braised in Penang curry (£6) or seared tuna loin on a bed of lemongrass and green mango (£8). Kaffir lime caipi anyone? Ostentatious as the name might sound, this watering hole keeps it mellow. Thai fruits including passion and wood apple make regular appearances in the bartender’s original concoctions and complement a menu of fusion pub grub. Order a High Five, a subtly sweet blend of tequila, pineapple, lemon and honey fluffed up with egg white. Drinks are dirt cheap but delicious at this dive bar par excellence, thanks to the use of fresh fruits and herbs from the nearby markets. Small art exhibitions and movie nights draw a mellow crowd during the week, while Fridays and Saturdays tend to be rowdier. Music mostly ranges from disco to oldies to local bands. This cafe sells only sustainably grown arabica beans harvested by the Akha hill tribe. The coffee not only provides a substantial source of income to the tribe, but has won nods from the . Housed in the grandly refurbished former British Consulate, this slick number is the place to indulge in single malts, Cuban cigars and all manner of martinis. At £5-£6 each, cocktails like the Pomelo Julep, a zingy concoction spiked with tangerine, pomegranate syrup and dehydrated limes, or Tea Time, with Earl Grey-infused vodka, are pricier than at the local bucket bars, but worth the comparative splurge. Keep an eye out for the not-so-secret private room accessed via a hidden door in one of the bookshelves. In case the 60 types of single-origin beans decorating the walls and the powerhouse of a roaster didn’t tip you off, this Bangkok import takes its coffee seriously. In fact, its so committed to caffeine that aspiring baristas can sign up for intensive courses.   Gone are the days when Singha and Chang were the only brews in this increasingly cosmopolitan town. This popular pub offers 50 international beers, 15 of which are on tap on any given evening, as well as the occasional draught cider. Burgers, fries and other greasy fare help soak up all the suds. Sumptuous teak furnishings, rain showers, Persian carpets, natural bath products, and a pillow menu give each of the 19 rooms a plush feel. Even if you stay elsewhere, stop by for high tea (£16 for two) and French confections under fragrant frangipani trees in the Nakara Jardin restaurant. With just 15 elegant guest rooms, many with river views, Sala Lanna provides a relaxed atmosphere within minutes of the old town. The clean, simple design makes this an instantly appealing option, but what gives it a real edge is the rooftop pool with a panorama of the lush surroundings.  Situated near the great, gilded Wat Phra Singh temple, this 25-room boutique hotel designed by Thai architect  exudes sophistication with its antique-adorned halls, tranquil courtyards, and library housing at least 2,000 handsomely bound volumes. Burmese Shan and rare northern Thai dishes are on the menu at its excellent restaurant.  Industrial furnishings and flouncy duvets dress up the dorms at this centrally located budget choice near Wat Phra Singh. A terrace for mingling only sweetens the deal. Offering a change from the ubiquitous Lanna style, with its teak carvings and pointy roofs, Zensala sports a raw cement exterior and floor-to-ceiling windows overlooking the Ping river. The 14 rooms and suites with modern furnishings and spa belie the price tag.  </content>
<class_name>Thailand holidays,City breaks,Walking holidays,Food and drink,Hotels,Restaurants,Cultural trips,Heritage,Thai food and drink,Asia,Food & drink,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T07:00:21+0000</date>
<title>Chiang Mai, Thailand, guide: what to do, plus the best hotels and restaurants</title>
<content>dinburgh’s dirtiest trick is hiding in plain sight. Sold a 2D iteration of Braveheart, bagpipes and festivals, tourists cling to trademark attractions that have steep prices and no soul. When festival revellers swell the population in August, most of them head indoors, trading the capital’s spoils for darkened rooms. But there’s much to discover beyond the summer festivals and the shortbread Scottishness sold in the tourist traps.Venture out from the Royal Mile and you’ll find weathered stones and tall spires punctuated with green giants. In an afternoon, you can conquer an ancient volcano or scale an abandoned acropolis without leaving the centre.Edinburgh is a city of rises and falls. Her crags, wynds, vennels and vaults entice you up crooked steps with good reason. Get some height, and you’ll really see her. Medieval tenements clustering on a glacial tail. The geometric perfection of rational Georgian streets. A lick of blue where North Sea meets sky. Gilded by summer sun, this city sings, but she wears her storm clouds effortlessly. Brooding under a blackened sky with the malting sweetness of hops on the air, Edinburgh gets into your bones.With the city’s rich history, it’s easy to lose yourself unearthing the past. But beyond the cobblestones, a modern city aches to tell its tale. This capital’s present is just as relevant, if you know where to look. Here you can go urban foraging with the , find a , welcome , or sit in  with a fat Persian called Guillaume. Edinburgh is losing its stiff upper lip, and embracing a world beyond bygone heroes and royal ties.For a cultural fix, look no further than multi arts venue Summerhall. Housed in the former veterinary school, it has an eclectic, well-curated calendar of events all year round, including science lectures, challenging art exhibitions, and food festivals. It’s also home to the much-loved microbrewery Barney’s Beer. Edinburgh is dripping with literary history, and it’s easy to lose a day perusing the musty wares of the West Port’s many secondhand bookshops or get a high-octane hit from the city’s best wordsmiths. In addition to events at the , there are spoken word nights all over the city. ,  and  offer noisy slam poetry, eclectic cabaret and unforgettable evenings – all at bargain prices.Give the tartan souvenir shops a wide berth and head down to Armstrong’s vintage clothing emporium on the Grassmarket for the real deal: a heavy pre-loved woollen kilt could cost about £25. Given that a new one can cost £600 or more, it’s a keepsake worth splashing out on (if the prospect of a previous bare-arsed Scottish owner doesn’t put you off). Other great vintage shops are ,  and .The city is known more for its whisky heritage, but good gin is everywhere at the moment. Top of the list is the Edinburgh Gin Distillery, where passionate guides will lead groups of visitors on a connoisseur tour. Afterwards, design your own gin cocktail, or just enjoy their other wares – the elderflower gin liqueur is a show-stopper. Porty is Edinburgh’s seaside. Only a few miles from the middle of the city, this seafront was once the go-to destination for Midlothian holidaymakers. Its Victorian splendour has long faded, but Portobello’s allure lies in that nostalgia. Walk the esplanade, play the penny arcades and eat fish and chips (with salt and sauce) by the sea. If the weather’s grim, enjoy the (£7.20) – one of only a handful left in the UK. This pocket-sized Mexican cantina was an instant hit with locals, but closed after a serious fire within a few months of opening. A year on, it has risen triumphantly from sooty ruin, and this second coming has been worth the wait – for the best tacos in town and rotating flavours of frozen margarita. There are no reservations, so if there’s a queue, have a drink in the Bon Vivant pub over the road and they will give you a call when there’s a table. Standout  (snacks) are the duck , fish tacos (£6.50) and . Aizle – say it like hazel – isn’t your by-the-book fine dining restaurant. There is no menu, just a list of the season’s exceptional local produce, so your dining is at the mercy of the chef’s whim – but it is as generous on the eye as it is on the palate. Recent highlights included stout bread with whipped duck butter and carrot salt, miso-cured hake, and prosecco with strawberry puree and dill.Sandwiched between a couple of the city’s more lauded reataurants, this cosy, family-run Turkish bistro is easy to miss. Serving traditional meze and solid vegetarian options, it is frequented more by regulars than visitors. You can bring your own booze, so take advantage of the cheap corkage. Those in the know order the special meze platter (£15.95pp, single meze £3.95) and a glass of traditional apple tea. If you’re looking for a nutritious meal, you won’t find it here. This tiny pastel emporium deals in two things only: chocolate and ice-cream. Sit at a Formica table, sipping hot chocolate, or spooning up freshly made gelato. With come-hither flavours like butter-fried bananas and creamy gorgonzola, this is a Wonka factory for pudding hunters – unabashed culinary hedonism. Bringing Scandinavian  to Scotland, this Swedish bakery and cafe has a loyal fanbase and is the perfect spot for long, lazy lunches of open sandwiches, button-bright salads and glossy, plump cardamom buns. Snap a  cookie and swirl it into black coffee for instant bliss. For impromptu indulgences, try the Opera cake at  (185 Bruntsfield Place), passionfruit and ricotta doughnuts at  (90 Brunswick Street), and if you find yourself swithering in  (22 Grindlay Street), try one flavoured with Innis & Gunn beer (65p).The Royal Mile is lined with mediocre boozers, but you don’t have to venture far for a pint with some personality.Beer and burgers have always been friends. Through some witchcraft, the Holyrood has turned one of the city’s scarier dive bars into an elegant go-to for both. Its drinks selection is bountiful – for hoppy session ale go for Fyne’s Jarl, or Williams Blackball for a roasted, chocolatey stout. Wash down a venison burger (served with clava brie from the Summer Isles and mulled cranberry) with a pint of Marmalade on Rye IPA from Tempest Brewing. If you didn’t know exactly where to look, you’d miss Bramble. Without signage, this nook-filled cocktail bar in a Queen Street basement feels private even when it’s busy. Expect Roots Manuva on the sound system, a tealight glow and not a mojito in sight. The Rheingold Express (Bols Genever, house cardamom and vanilla syrup, fresh lemon juice and crème de cacao) is worth the visit on its own. Among Edinburgh’s growing family of Swedish bars, Joseph Pearce still reigns supreme. The shabby-chic sitting-room vibe, solid drinks menu and great food keep regulars returning. In true Scandinavian spirit, the outside tables don’t hibernate – in winter, it’s alfresco boozing under a borrowed blanket. This fun and unusual cafe and cocktail bar in Leith’s vibrant shore area has a large selection of drinks displayed among teapots and ladies’ hats. Tunes are of the old-timey variety, and the two-dozen cocktails are served in china cups. Try the Scottish Skagen open sandwich (local smoked salmon, shrimp, dill and crème fraîche on toasted brioche) and a Rose Garden “pot-tail” (cocktail in a teapot) with apple, rose liqueur and cucumber. Edinburgh is overrun with big hotels and grotty hostels, so it takes a bit of sleuthing to find something different …Small in size but big on character, this little apartment offers hotel luxury with the privacy of an apartment. Other good stuff includes a four-poster, Molton Brown goodies and castle view. Once the home of polar explorer Ernest Shackleton, this unpretentious independent hotel won’t dent your savings. Spanning five Victorian townhouses in bohemian Stockbridge, it has bedrooms full of character, an excellent bar, fine dining and toiletries from the White Company. It’s incredible value in one of Edinburgh’s most interesting neighbourhoods.Edinburgh wouldn’t be Edinburgh without its tenements. These towering flats are a marker of days when it built up instead of out. Once overcrowded and unsafe, many of the oldest have vanished, though as the city expanded, newer, roomy tenements became the norm. With their high ceilings, bay windows, intricate cornicing and grand fireplaces, they’re synonymous with the city, and the closest you’ll get to genuine central living. As city views go, little can top this studio’s panorama of Arthur’s Seat – where people look like matchsticks. Spend your nights in the bell tower of the former James Clark School, with 63 acres of Holyrood Park mere paces from the door. </content>
<class_name>Edinburgh holidays,Scotland holidays,United Kingdom holidays,City breaks,Weekend breaks,Short breaks,Hotels,Restaurants,Bars and clubs,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-04T06:30:26+0000</date>
<title>Edinburgh city guide: what to see plus the best hotels, bars and restaurants</title>
<content>Nudging the French border is Spain’s joint oldest national park (created in 1918 with Picos de Europa, see below) but also one of the least well known. The 3,355m Monte Perdido (Lost Mountain) looms over dramatic glacial valleys up to 3km deep. In its 156 sq km you’ll find hikes for every level, including paths along natural ledges in the limestone just a metre wide. Most popular hikes begin at Pradera de Ordesa including the Circo de Cotatuero, a six-hour circuit to a thundering  (). There’s  (€52pp) just a few kilometres south of the park in Torla which has a comprehensive visitors’ information centre. This vast park, Spain’s largest, stretches over 850 sq km south from Granada to the gorgeous valleys of the Alpujarras, with more than 20 peaks over 3,000 metres. The hiking is spectacular; just pick your altitude to suit the time of year. I’ve got a soft spot for the Thursday market at Órgiva – locals selling big knickers, hippies selling tie-died stuff – and the trails around the Taha villages, including lovely Mecina Fondales.  in Pampaneira arranges a huge range of activities, such as mountain-biking, or saddle up with  (five days from €550pp) in Bubión. There’s skiing from late November until late April but conditions can be unreliable. The least-visited of all the parks is also one of the most appealing. You’re only allowed to land on one island in the archipelago, Cabrera itself, but it’s an unspoilt delight, particularly the castle, which guards the entrance to the harbour. Most visitors are just here for the day and spend it on the beach or following walking trails. Guided walks and kayak trips are also available. Some visitors never get further than the island’s only bar, which is propped up from first thing by the police officers stationed here. Boats with  from Colònia de Sant Jordi on Mallorca take about 30 minutes and cost around €40 return. There is water everywhere in this wild Pyrenean landscape. There are hundreds of lakes, fed by myriad streams tumbling over waterfalls as they pass through valleys of pine and fir forests, below peaks that reach more than 3,000 metres. Visitors stand a good chance of spotting some of the abundant wildlife, such as golden eagles and the Pyrenean chamois, a small antelope. It makes for a park that’s absolutely wonderful for hiking, from easy family strolls to testing multi-day treks into the mountains. Cross-country skiing’s possible in winter. Visitor centres are in the villages of Boí and Espot. Is there life on Mars? Who knows, but there’s certainly plenty of evidence of tourist lifeforms on this little piece of Martian landscape. Volcanic eruptions in the 17th and 18th centuries created an extraordinary park of volcanic cones and lava flows covering around 50 sq km. It’s still a hot zone – temperatures just a few metres below the surface reach 600C and a bucket of water thrown into a hole in the ground produces a satisfying geyser of steam. The entrance fee (€9 adult, €4.50 child) includes a coach tour round the park.  are available but should be booked well in advance. Jurassic Park could have been filmed here – it feels like a lost world. Erosion of a mountain has created a giant bowl up to 10km across with cliffs rising up to 2km from the floor of the caldera. Waterfalls explode out of these cliffs and streams run through forests of Canary Island pine. It’s wonderful walking country. The El Paso visitor centre just south of the park has maps and issues permits for camping in the park if you’ve not reserved online (see below). Minimal light pollution explains the  at 2,396 metres including GranTeCan, the world’s largest optical telescope.  or a  (€25 adult, €15 child). About three million people a year visit the volcano of Mount Teide (Spain’s highest peak at 3,718 metres) and the surrounding area, which covers 189 sq km. Take your pick of things to do: from an or a  (€27 return adult, €13.50 child), to a 40-minute  from 2,200 metres to the coast (around €170pp) or a freewheel downhill with  (€40 adult, €25 child). Everybody’s favourite park was created, like Ordesa, in 1918. It straddles three regions of Spain but is actually just 40km across. There’s no room here to do justice to its amazing variety. It’s deservedly popular so let me pick an area that’s a little less-visited. The southern flanks of the Picos de Europa has some of the park’s prettiest villages, including Posada de Valdeón which has a national park office and makes a fine base for walks. The Rio Cares goes through the village and its stunning gorge starts nearby. The stretch up to Cain is not quite as busy in summer as the northern section. This park is formed by a number of archipelagos but the stars are the  (Monteagudo, San Martiño and Faro) opposite the town of Vigo. The Atlantic batters the western side of these tiny outcrops but there are sheltered sandy beaches on the east. Visitor numbers are limited to try to protect the environment – it seems to be working as the sea here teems with life.  run from Vigo, Cangas and Baiona and cost from €16pp return. One for animal lovers; there are more than 200 species in this central western park, including the rare Spanish lynx. But it’s the bird population, including that really gets twitchers reaching for their binoculars. The 181 sq km park is home to vultures, eagles and owls, plus western Europe’s only breeding population of black storks. The hiking’s not shabby either – follow colour-coded routes from the park’s only village, Villarreal de San Carlos, where the visitor centre is, to some great birdwatching spots including the hunk of rock that is the  and the ruin of , or just enjoy the scenery; a couple of rivers carving through dramatic cliffs make for some splendid views. </content>
<class_name>Spain holidays,Europe holidays,Top 10s,National parks,Walking holidays,Wildlife holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-01T06:30:31+0000</date>
<title>Top 10 national parks in Spain</title>
<content>It’s awkward. A city stuck between one disturbing past, two names, and several diverse and conflicting identities. It’s the city named after an Afrikaner folk hero and founded on the principle that God had granted the land to the Boers. But change is afoot as Pretoria exorcises past demons and begins to develop its own contemporary identity. Today, it’s the stronghold of ANC administration, populated by well-to-do black bureaucrats, a city of leafy boulevards traversed by foreign diplomats and their families. In a country swept forward by attempts at transformation, the capital could have been a candidate for being left in the Highveld dust. The city’s name was approved to change to Tshwane in 2005, but with the matter still under review, the old seat of apartheid power is still known as Pretoria. Modern developments such as Freedom Park are reconciling the ghosts of the past.Calmer but slightly balmier than its conjoined-twin city Johannesburg, in spring it reveals itself with a fierce burst of breathtaking purple jacaranda. In the centre, grand buildings line historic Church Square, with its statue of late 19th-century Boer leader Paul Kruger, while, to the south, the Voortrekker monument watches over a diverse population in constant flux. The city centre’s architecture gives a sense of history that will be familiar to a European visitor, and walking the inner metropole is an ideal way to soak up this vantage point of history.A large student population means the CBD (central business district) has a hubbub of rowdy bars serving garish shots in the colours of the national flag: head for the joints around Hatfield Square. To balance out the rugby and testosterone, Pretoria also attracts ambitious and politically active young people from all over the country, and a characterful multicultural scene is bubbling up. In particular, fashion mavericks such as the  have captured an avant-garde slice of contemporary urban South Africa, with happenings that even Johannesburg’s archest trendies doff their fedoras at. SM’s regular markets on the first Sunday of each month at the Mushroom Lounge (Francis Baard St, Sunnyside) are worth building a city break around.Visitors can use Pretoria as a staging post for trips out to the breathtaking wilderness of the provinces of Mpumalanga and Limpopo, or the pretty hills of  and  to the west. But for an adventure closer by, get a solid local connection to help you seek out some proper township funk and DJ Spoko’s Pretoria-grown “bacardi” style of house music (see below). Activating those friends-of-friends will get you out there, beyond your comfort zone, and a Sunday afternoon jam in  township will reveal the real beating pulse of South African culture.I started off playing music at a shebeen in Atteridgeville. We used to do these random street bashes where we closed the street and put the tent up. Three- and four-day bashes. My sound is bacardi – I call it noisy music, or “destruction”.To experience bacardi music, I would take people to where we do this thing each and every Sunday. It happens from 6pm on Sundays and Mondays. It goes to different places with the tent and the DJs, so it moves around Atteridgeville. We play bacardi all the way.The party is called Dispin – it means to “spin”. I don’t play there any more – I’ve left it for young DJs to promote themselves. Young, up-and-coming DJs who play the style that I play – they are like my students. The artists to watch out for are two boys who call themselves , and there’s also Cool Candy – but the list is long. These are the guys who used to chill with me and I used to teach them the 1-2-3. During the week, Atteridgeville is slow, but on Friday you can go to the , a very nice pub that plays house music and R&B. It’s a legit club where you can go and chill.In the city, everything starts happening on Friday in Sunnyside, the party strip where there’s clubs like , a place that has major dance-offs, and , a basic joint that is the mecca of deep house music in Pretoria, with some of the biggest DJs playing, like Vinny Da Vinci, Christos, Glen Lewis, Julian Gomez. And they say our music is too noisy! is where big house artists play, local and international … like Black Coffee, one of Africa’s most influential DJs and producers, and house legend Alton Miller from the US. It’s in Ga-Rankuwa, a little way out of the city, but has a young and mixed crowd. It’s a big club that’s grown out of someone’s back yard, and also puts on live music by the likes of Nathi Mankayi.There’s also a big event, the  that happens every 26 December in Atteridgeville. It’s a huge outdoor festival held at the  that 10,000 people partied at last year. It goes on until late with many different artists, including underground jazz, and bacardi DJs. Last year, they had South African rapper  and  playing.”A lot of the most innovative and interesting places to eat in Pretoria are actually in the suburbs. A great place to start, where you can get a great beer as well as top food, is  in the eastern suburb of Lynnwood. It serves unbelievably good ribs and has 216 beers in its artisanal selection. Another place that has recently opened up in the same neighbourhood is  – a cute spot located next door to the biggest hipster bar in town, , which serves an unspeakably delicious brisket calzone. I also really love  and , both in the northern suburb of Villeria. The latter is part of the Echo Youth Development scheme, a non-profit organisation that supports vulnerable youth in South Africa.  is a gorgeous coffee shop with arguably the best coffee and certainly the best pistachio cake in the city. It’s a lovely community-based, family-owned business and the perfect creative workspace. is a project my partner  and I started up in June 2014, where we occupy alternative food spaces (like Grounded at Echo,  in Colbyn,  in Hatfield and  in the Maboneng Precinct, ). I prepare dinner and he curates the sound waves for the evening. It’s a really cosy affair – we do it once a month and seat 50 people, basing each occasion around a different cuisine. Our next pop-up will be showcasing Asian street food. has just opened its doors in the leafy eastern suburb of the Willows and offers seasonal, responsibly sourced food. It’s a really exciting venture, particularly because it’s a sustainable restaurant and pretty much everything is grown and reared on the property, from fish to vegetables. It serves an excellent seven-course menu for R450 (about £20), which is good value considering the quality of ingredients and presentation, ambience and knock-out flavour combinations. On the , which will be changed seasonally, the duck rillette is exquisite, as well as the bream served with roast lime, edamame beans and olives. This place is an absolute must-visit.Thirty minutes’ drive out of Pretoria to the east is the old diamond mining town of Cullinan. Here you’ll find a restaurant called , where a culinary artist, , serves a fantastic multi-course lunch on the porch of the home she shares with her husband Robert. Surrounded by the beautiful landscapes of the De Tweedespruit valley,  stands on its own, literally and figuratively. Wessels has a diverse, well-travelled palate with a great knack for flavours and she has a very personal approach to dining and serving each course. And the easy-going and homely farm atmosphere is great for a break from the city.The 80km  bus system (also called the A Re Yeng) has site-specific artwork at its stations, including the traditional Ndebele patterns of ; Diane Victor’s The History Column, comprised of mosaic portraits of resistance heroes such as Nana Sita; and , which pays homage to Pretoria’s iconic jacaranda trees. The art is presented on 11-metre totem poles, and makes up a huge urban art collection. Apart from their artistic merits they are also very useful to visitors for orientation purposes.The Old Synagogue is where the  was held (between 1963 and 1964, 10 leaders of the African National Congress, including Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu were tried for acts of sabotage designed to overthrow the apartheid government). My firm designed and constructed a  bus station at the synagogue, acting as a convergence point for the history of South Africa. The glass exterior reflects the image of the Old Synagogue back to the viewer. There are other  stations – all part of the A Re Yeng system – that were specifically designed for sensitive historical precincts. At the synagogue we did not want to compete with the ornate architecture of the historic building and opted for a simple box with viewing panes. gave land to the Jewish community, and they built these Byzantine onion domes close to Church Square where the Palace of Justice is. We used to call it Victorian architecture, but it should be called eclectic , because it has a more Dutch feel.There’s a website called  that you can use as a good reference for a walk. At the Palace of Justice , and the , which came into being in 1955, was handwritten in the cell below.There’s the perception that downtown is dangerous, but if you’re smart and don’t look like a tourist, it’s adventurous! There are free walking tours organised by  with in-depth information on some of the amazing architecture of historic buildings and, where possible, access is given to some of the rooftops to get a birds-eye view of the city. A lot of the buildings from the late-modernism period during apartheid were inspired by Oscar Niemeyer, the Brazilian communist architect, which seems somewhat ironic.If you like contemporary architecture, visit, next to the , a massive structure built in commemoration of the eponymous Afrikaners who left the Cape between 1835 and 1854 to settle inland. For the , the management allowed us to light the monument up in pink.A good outing is to , in west Pretoria, which has a very rich history. The area is much like District Six (in Cape Town) and Sophiatown (Johannesburg), whose inhabitants were also forcefully relocated to single-race townships under the Group Areas Act. Marabastad’s black inhabitants were forced to settle in Atteridgeville in 1945, the coloured residents in Eersterus in 1963, and the Indian residents in Laudium (1968). Unlike other neighbourhoods where forced removals took place, the buildings were not bulldozed. The landmarks include a mosque and a Hindu temple, so it’s quite diverse. You get the experience of Hindu tailors, taxi ranks, and muti (traditional medicine) shops. It’s a very underrated place.The style scene in Pretoria is beginning to find its own voice, and we’re definitely not just echoing what’s happening in Johannesburg any longer. Trendsetters take vintage pieces and give them a fresh look. Vintage clothing is relatively cheap in Pretoria and people can source their clothes easily at open markets – that’s why it’s so popular. There’s a really good pop-up vintage market at , which happens once a month; and then there are the flea markets around the  in the CBD. The  is also excellent if you’re looking for deals and aren’t afraid to be in the edgier side of town. You can get food and fresh produce from street vendors, and second-hand clothes too. One of the best charity shops specialising in second-hand clothing at super low prices is .At the higher end,  is a Pretoria-based designer who is making waves in the industry, and has showcased his women’s “athleisure” and minimal colourful cuts at various South African Fashion Weeks in the past few years.  by Dhrital Kalan, from Laudium, is an indie-boho jewellery line – chokers, bracelets, septums, bindis – with Indian, gypsy and vintage influences that I’m obsessed with.  is a brilliant sneaker and concept store that also stocks South African street apparel like  and  and .A really good starting point to find out what’s happening on the party scene or in the arts in Pretoria is the blog . Also check out Thithi Nteta’s blog .Pretoria is a bit of an oasis – it’s lush and green in the summer rainy season, but with a lot of sunshine. We’re at a high altitude (1,339 metres – just a couple of metres lower than Ben Nevis) with some hills, but the terrain is fairly flat and there are no large peaks. This makes it ideal for . The best place for an introductory ride is around the  – there’s a 12km route with spectacular views across the savannah bush veld. There are places that offer a whole mountain biking experience with bikes for hire included in the price.In the valley below Pretoria, 5km to the south, is the , which offers even the  the opportunity to ride between kudu, giraffe, zebra, and blesbok. Atop the Salvokop Hill, opposite, is , containing a series of memorial sites constructed in a brutalist architectural style by the late Jeremy Rose and others. The structures were built in response to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission and are linked by themes of freedom and human rights.Twelve miles north of Pretoria is a dedicated mountain bike park, , inside a nature reserve with routes ranging from 7km to 40km through bush veld. All have wonderful panoramic views and the chance to view zebra, kudu and impala among other wildlife. Daily entry is R40 (about £2). – which features my sculpture, Layers of Being, a giant kneeling figure made of rammed earth – is a network of limestone caves in which have been found several fossils of plants, animals and hominids. It is in a very beautiful setting, an hour’s drive to the south-west of the city. Visitors can admire a great diversity of sculptures and installations as they stroll through hills and grassy valleys on beautifully kept pathways meandering between streams and dams. There is ample room between permanent artworks by the likes of , ,  and  that give the viewer opportunity to cleanse their palate before the next visual experience.I sometimes go for an early morning walk at the  (pictured below) in , 30 minutes’ drive to the north of Pretoria. The big five can be seen here, as well as a great number of bird species. Personally, I am quite content with just the aromatic flora and the beautiful trees – tambotie, combretums, and my favourite: the  (in Afrikaans),  (in Sotho), or boscia albitrunca. The animals are a bonus.Just three miles from the centre to the east, these gardens make a lovely day out. There are restaurants and picnic areas. A paved nature trail gives access to the fascinating natural vegetation on the ridge, which boasts a diversity of indigenous fauna and flora. Fifty hectares of the total area is devoted to developed garden, using almost exclusively South African plants. Nearly all of the flowering plant species can be seen, including 50% of the country’s tree species, making the gardens a botanical tapestry. There are savanna and forest biomes for visitors to spend time in. Different themed gardens are continuously being developed. And adult admission is just R26 (£1.20).Outside seating, great grills, also meat to buy to braai (BBQ) yourself later. I recommend the massive T-bone steak with chunky chips (ask them to wrap up the bones for your dog), or their chicken  (skewers).Great cafe for breakfast, lunch, coffee and cake. Their lemon meringue pie is to die for!</content>
<class_name>Pretoria holidays,Cultural trips,South Africa holidays,Africa holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-10T06:30:10+0000</date>
<title>The alternative city guide to Pretoria, South Africa</title>
<content>The Karoo is South Africa’s magical desert space, its version of New Mexico, the Outback or the Gobi. A vast, ancient seabed straddling the midriff of the country, the Karoo (a Bushman word for “dry place”) is the size of Germany. In the past two centuries, more than 100 towns, villages, settlements and railway sidings have sprung up in the region, but the population has always been sparse, never topping the one-million mark.These open plains, mostly surrounded by flat-topped hills and mountains in the distance, are South Africa’s soul spaces. They have also become the permanent home of some of the country’s most creative people, in the form of novelists, outsider artists, crafters, musicians, eccentrics, town champions, beer brewers, chefs, sculptors, internet wizards, funky hoteliers and a new breed of dynamic young farmer. These days, the Karoo feels the beat of the  deep in the Tankwa desert as the crowds light up the night with fire, full-volume sounds and a creative passion.This is the age of the Karoo road trip, where you set aside as many days as you can spare, fill up the petrol tank and head out on a dead-straight blacktop that could become a dirt road, complete with wine, meat on the coals and a sky full of stars. And it’s the least expensive holiday you can have in South Africa.You can’t get from Johannesburg to Cape Town without crossing the Karoo. A hundred years ago, long before the N1 Great North Road, the route through the interior was tough, tortuous and constantly punctuated with farmers’ gates. People travelled this way armed with large bags of boiled sweets to reward the children who would open the gates.This countryside has seen the plodding progress of the large dinosaur-like reptile bradysaurus, which thrived here 250-odd million years ago in the Permian period, and the fleet footsteps of Africa’s first people, the Bushmen, on the hunt for eland. On a stroll, you may discover fossils, Bushmen arrowheads, settler coat buttons and spent cartridges from a Boer War skirmish. It has been scored by the passage of millions of springbok on their migrations across the plains, devouring all before them. It has witnessed the arrival (in about the fifth century AD) of the  with their flocks of goats and fat-tailed sheep, to be followed by the European-origin  (itinerant farmers), many of whom ultimately formed the farming communities that still occupy the land.Today, your journey might involve trading stores, a pub crawl in the middle of nowhere, a random anti-fracking protest march in a mountain village and the lure of the never-ending road.They say at first one travels from place to place; then one travels from face to face, as happens in the Karoo. Here are some of the faces you’ll encounter.When Tankwa Padstal was burned down by an arsonist in September 2014, the AfrikaBurners (festivalgoers), the bikers who pass here, and the road-trippers heading north all donated money to rebuild it, along with odd bits of decor to furnish it. We were up and going again within three months.We are almost next to the , the closest true desert to Cape Town. The young people who come to this area want the dry heat, the clean air and the stripped-down environment.Sometimes I’m amazed at the people we see. They look like sushi eaters who should be on Clifton beach in Cape Town, but here they are, dazzled by the heat and the rough roads and the huge distances. There’s no cell phone signal and their hire cars really look like they’ve been through the mill.But a few days later, when they come back from the national park or AfrikaBurn or wherever they’ve been, they look happy and relaxed. Lots of them don’t want to leave. They hang around here the whole day, eating and drinking and swimming, offering to work for free.As a family, we know all the great local hideaways. Apart from our bar, there are two other drinking spots worth visiting: the pub at , which serves real traditional Karoo food like mutton neck stew and grilled lamb tails, and the Onverklaar Bar, part of the . The Onverklaar Bar (Undeclared Bar) has many surprises and delights, including a large wooden box called Pandora, which is full of dressing-up costumes – perfect for that Tankwa pop-up party. Guests at the tented camp are its main patrons, but passers-by are also welcomed.There’s another popular place close to us, called  (The Mouth), which is a green oasis in the middle of the desert. The resort lies beside a large body of water and consists of a campsite and a cluster of basic bungalows. Hot water and wind-powered LED lighting is available, but there’s no cellphone reception.When we’re in Calvinia, we check in at the local butchery and then the  guest house. The guest house is part of the recently launched Republic of Rusticana, full of old enamel signs, found objects, paintings, ceramics and tastefully decorated car wrecks. The owners, Dirk and Sonja van Rensburg, are lovely eccentrics, Karoo hippies who welcome you into their home.Karoo cultural events bring visitors and locals together in a special way. Take the , which we stage in the first week of September every year. It’s a celebration of the Nama Riel, a traditional dance with really catchy music that tells stories of hunting and courtship.The Nama Riel has a deep history, going back to the days of the first people of the Karoo – the Bushmen. It was then taken up by others – Khoikhoi herders and later farmworkers in the region. There are Nama Riel dancing groups all over the Northern Cape these days, participating in cultural festivals and performing in their home towns at the weekend. Because dances are traditionally held on deep sand and involve swift kicking motions, the locals say it’s a good Nama Riel if “the dust rises before you”. The riel almost disappeared for decades, but is now enjoying a massive revival, and they’re starting to teach it in the schools of Williston. The community has incredible pride in the dance. In fact, I’d say it’s more popular around here than rugby.Festivals, like ours and the  are a great way for visitors to gain insight into the culture of the Karoo. Just don’t expect anything too packaged and polished. There was nothing much happening in Philipstown before the locals realised that their own crafters made the finest wire car models around. Four years ago the first Philipstown Wire Car Grand Prix was held, which sees the community’s young people go on a mad dash through the village streets. Now it’s grown into a one-day festival held every year in October, and it’s become famous with visitors from all over joining in the fun. In the last weekend of August, a week before our winter festival, Calvinia (80 miles west of Williston) holds its  (Meat Festival), but it’s not only about chops, steaks and spicy sausage. Veteran tractors chug up from the Western Cape, and there is traditional boer music. The  is also one of our favourite events. Middelpos is one of the tiniest settlements in the Karoo, made famous by the great UK-based (but South African born) actor Antony Sher in his book, Middelpost. The church bazaar is in September and it’s held in the street. We go down there to support all the stalls selling regional cheeses, meat and biltong. Then we dance the night away to the sounds of a  – a farmers’ orchestra, complete with accordion, piano and guitar.Next year, I’m going to paint my toenails and attend  again. The little African brother of Nevada’s Burning Man is held over a week every autumn (April 25 to May 1 this year) on a private farm called Stonehenge, adjacent to the Tankwa Karoo national park. When it began in 2007, barely 1,000 people came – now there’s a 2016 attendance cap of 11,700 tickets. It’s the most vibey, peaceful mass collection of celebrating South Africans you’ll find. People go there to be creative and have fun – it’s a temporary city of art, theme camps, costume, music and performance. It culminates with the night-burning of various giant artworks but really ends with the Moop (matter out of place) patrol, where hundreds of people pick up every last trace of human detritus, leaving the festival grounds as clean as they found them.Karoo food has never strayed beyond the traditional. If you talk meat here, you’re talking Karoo lamb, mutton and venison. The hunters and herders ate this food, along with  – the indigenous plant food that the Bushmen first pointed out to the colonists.I would point visitors to restaurants in the town of , like the newly opened Meerkat Deli or the . The Meerkat Deli offers a selection of sliced meats, Karoo cheeses and a variety of home-grown organic items like pickled agave buds and glazed figs, to eat there or on the go. The Coldstream, named after the British regimental unit that occupied Graaff-Reinet during the Anglo-Boer War, is where you go for meat dishes of ostrich, beef and springbok.And I really recommend  (barbecues) with friends, old or new. Self-catering places in Graaff-Reinet normally come complete with outside braai facilities, so you can make dinner the adventure of the day: hunt down the local butcher, ask for good lamb chops. You will probably find that the meat comes from a farm nearby, and the town has its own recipe for  – lamb or beef kebabs usually marinated in lightly curried sweet and sour sauce. Let them advise you on how to cook them, then gather up something to drink at the  wine shop, perhaps one of the Rupert labels like the 2013 Terra del Capo Arne, a juicy red. Pop in briefly at the supermarket for some green stuff and a bag of braai wood and you’re good to go.On the second night, drop in at the , a historic former gentleman’s establishment that still has about 250 stalwart members but welcomes visitors. Order a cold one and you’ll soon find the members are pretty friendly. The chances are that an hour or so later, you’ll be enjoying some true Karoo dining hospitality in good company. The point is, in the Karoo you’re a traveller, not a tourist. You are encouraged to interact with the locals you find here. The social life is what makes this region special for us.When we visit neighbouring towns in the region, we like to eat at the  (where pot-cooked meals are the speciality) and the  (for Karoo Ale and ploughman’s platters starring goat’s cheese and kudu salami) in Nieu Bethesda (30 miles north of Graff-Reinet); , 100 miles east of Graff-Reinet in Cradock, for superb pizzas and wonderful local warmth, and the  (the elegant 1850s-era grand hotel serving traditional Karoo dishes), also in Cradock; the  (fine dining) in Bedford (50 miles south of Cradock); and a brand new daytime venue in Tarkastad called , which serves eggs benedict breakfasts, interesting salads and light lunches.Semi-deserts like the Karoo often attract creative souls. These are places where the mind can open up, places for retrospection and reflection, an authentic life experience. The Karoo is a sacred space, and many people recognise that. Even so, the high standard of the art comes as quite a surprise to visitors.The town of Nieu Bethesda, where I live, rose to fame because of a very eccentric woman called Helen Martins who was an . Whenever anything is written about the Art Brut movement, the  of Nieu Bethesda is mentioned. Back in the 1960s, Helen turned her family home into what would become the outsider art centre of the Karoo, and a great tourist attraction for Nieu Bethesda. With her craftsman-assistant, Koos Malgas, she worked in cement and glass, building an imaginarium that drew from all religions and told many stories – the Three Wise Men, something from Omar Khayyam, in the corner stands an all-seeing owl and there’s a cross-legged Buddha. Playwright ’s play and subsequent film, The Road to Mecca, was based on the life and work of Helen Martins. Today, the Owl House is a museum.For artists, the Karoo is an incredible place. For example, my neighbour Annette van der Hulst, who is a seamstress, once asked someone for a kudu horn. People got to hear of this, so soon she had a long stream of people bringing her kudu and cow horns. Eventually, she worked out a way of putting an  (needlework technique) of Shweshwe (a printed dyed cotton fabric widely used for traditional clothing) and other scraps of cloth on them – sort of a fusion modern art kind of thing. You’d never get that happening in a city. The Karoo forces you to see and use what is around you.I’d recommend going to the , which exhibits the most amazing lino-cuts, and appliquéd quilts, telling the myths, narrative and dreams of the Karoo and South Africa. There’s an amazing series of lino-cuts that depict the Karoo under threat of fracking – it tells the story beautifully. The threat of fracking and uranium mining in the region has evoked new ways of expression, and a degree of urgency to save it. There have been quite a few exhibitions on the subject, the prime one being , which has been moving around the country, and which looks at the interplay of heritage, culture, politics and economics and the way all of this impacts on the land and the communities who live on it.Then there is , who is a world-class sculptor who fashions slim, finely balanced figures (including a bust of South African playwright Athol Fugard) out of his own amalgam of resins and metals. He has his studio on the way to the Brewery and Two Goats Deli (covered earlier in the Gordon Wright food section) in Bethesda. Everything is in walking distance here.In Graaff-Reinet, the Rupert family have several galleries and their collections are always worth seeing. The Drosty Hotel has an art gallery next to the wine shop, but the Ruperts’ main displays are at the , which holds more than 100 works by famous South African artists - Maud Sumner, Maggie Laubser, Irma Stern, Gregoire Boonzaier – in a beautiful , dating from 1821, the fifth oldest church building in South Africa.Another town I really recommend for anyone interested in art is . The town just flows with creativity, from galleries and photography to weaving and food. Using a great little guide called the Prince Albert Arts and Design Map (available from the Tourism Association office in Church Street), you can visit the  (regular exhibitions by artists working in many disciplines), an evening one-man show called , the Watershed (a series of art showrooms),  and , where you can watch a blacksmith at work. And I love those wire and bead angels made by the Vondeling women’s co-operative near . What a winning concept. They hit it so right.Over the years, I’ve taken many visitors out along the river courses and dams up in the mountains of the Karoo. Invariably, the first question they’ll ask me is: “Can I get mobile reception here?” When they realise they’re totally disconnected from their devices, their faces register shock. And then they begin to focus on their immediate surrounds - the landscape, the moment of being out in a sweeping jumble of big mountains, thick bush, vast valleys and along the Little Fish river where, hopefully, they will catch a trout or a yellowfish. And that’s when the magic happens, the stress falls away and the outdoor learning begins.If you have a good guide, a walk through the Karoo is an incredible experience. One sight of a fossil embedded in a riverbank takes you back hundreds of millions of years. The next moment you’re watching a life or death struggle between an ant lion and its prey. Or, as you prepare to fish at the riverside, you focus on the minute movements of a dragonfly over the water.There’s no quick-fix, fast-food way of thinking out here. You come with an enquiring mind, you come low-tech and you come prepared to experience and learn about whatever you encounter. We have a great and growing network of farmstays like , Somerset East; , Graaf-Reinet;  and , Nieu Bethesda;  and , Middelburg; or , near Cradock. Karoo farmstays are authentic, fun to visit and inexpensive. Add to that our national parks: Cradock’s , Graaff-Reinet’s , Beaufort West’s , Kimberley’s , the  on the north-western coastline, and the . All are wonderful places to begin your relationship with the Karoo outdoors.You might think there’s nothing to do at night out here. You would be wrong. Just sit around the braai fire, listen to the stories. Ask a farmer or your guide to take you on a slow drive through a Karoo landscape on a moonlit night. You will be amazed at the wealth of creatures that emerge: hedgehogs, porcupine, aardvark, wild cats.Then go quiet and try to pick out the yelp of the jackal out there in the dark, or the sound of the nightjar calling. Before you go to sleep, move away from the firelight, get comfortable in your sleeping bag and look up at the stars. You’ve never seen them so close, and in such multitudes.Sutherland, a couple of hours’ drive east of Tankwa Karoo national park, sits on top of a plateau in a part of the Karoo known commonly as the Moordenaars Karoo (Killers Karoo), probably because it is so sparsely populated and the landscape so unforgivingly dry. But its clear air makes for cool summers and freezing winters (it sometimes snows in Sutherland), and for an ideal place in which to locate one of . The town itself – like so many Karoo  (villages) – is small and pretty, and the observatory is really worth a visit, but hiking in this incredible landscape is an extraordinary experience.Life in the Karoo isn’t easy, but those who live there and work the land are surrounded by a starkly beautiful landscape.Take time to travel on a dirt road at night in the Karoo because besides the star-studded sky you will see an amazing array of nocturnal animals. We were so lucky to see a huge shooting star on our trip on a dirt road outside the Karoo town of Richmond (75 miles west of Middelburg). We also saw two different types of hares including the elusive riverine rabbit, an owl, a fox, a jackal, a duiker and a pair of equally elusive aardwolf. It was amazing to see how alive this piece of dry land became at night.The little town of Richmond boast, , Richmond Books and Prints and The Book Orphanage all situated in in beautiful Victorian houses in Loop street. The town also hosts the annual Richmond Book Festival where writers and poets from all over the world gather to celebrate literature.Rent a cottage at this amazing farm, set in some surprising geological formations that will change the way you think about the Karoo. We stayed here for just one night and are longing to return. The stars, the birds, the stillness make this the heart of the Karoo for us. Near Oudtshoorn, Western Cape, itself full of surprises, and easy to get to with a car, but you’ll feel like you’re on a different, magical planet.A friend drove us out to his favourite local spot at sunset. We all live in Prince Albert, which is on the very edge of the Swartberg, which is a micro-biosphere with numbers of unique plants and a huge range of fauna. Between Prince Albert and Oudtshoorn lie two routes – the pass over the mountains, and the Meiringspoort pass which follows the winding path of the river between spectacular, lichen covered red mountains, and past a waterfall which fills the lake below, believed for many years to be the home of a mermaid. On the way, one may see baboons, mongoose, leopard tortoises, small gazelles and, between dusk and early morning, the beautiful kudu antelope.</content>
<class_name>South Africa holidays,Africa holidays,Adventure travel,Wildlife holidays,Food and drink,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-17T06:00:03+0000</date>
<title>The alternative guide to the Karoo, South Africa</title>
<content>On the Indian Ocean coast of South Africa, 350 miles south-east of Johannesburg, Durban is a tourist destination that chimes with the subtropical overtures of Mozambique to the north: warm water, hot summers and a laid-back beachy ambience. Yet culturally it’s very much a South African city, albeit one often pigeonholed as the less sophisticated, beach-bum cousin to the tourist mecca of Cape Town. The whole of KwaZulu-Natal province certainly has glorious beaches. You can surf your heart out along Durban’s Golden Mile – in water that won’t make your feet go numb within seconds, unlike the icy swells in Cape Town. But these days, beyond the sand and waves, the more comparisons that are made with its Western Cape sister city, the more substance Durban has.It’s got a thriving craft food, beer and spirits scene, an internationally respected , and a new homegrown musical movement ( – pronounced qwom) that has one aim: getting people on the dance floor. So infectious is the lo-fi sound of Durban’s underground that a  has made its way into the playlists of hip Westerners hungry for a different beat. There are also attempts at cutting-edge city renewal: with the development of the , Surf City is starting to rival Johannesburg’s urban regeneration thunder, too. Add in the steamy climate – with an average of 320 days’ sunshine a year – and it’s clear why some people are now looking east.The city is well set up for large events, with many big international touring artists including it on their itineraries, along with major annual music awards such as the  (the Mamas). The  in 2011 put the city on the map for the international development community, while its  and  add to Durban’s respectability.Speak to Durbanites about their city and you get a distinct sense of polarisation. The lively harbour feels like the headiest cultural mix, with a downtown edge, but other worlds are not far away. Culturally, Durban still divides itself into pockets. Northern suburbs such as Umhlanga are fairly white, with sedate cafes and beachfront hotels; areas like Chatsworth, Phoenix and Tongaat will offer authentic curries and sari shops as part of a massive Indian community, dating from the British use of indentured labour from the subcontinent in the 19th century to work on sugar cane plantations; and vast – mainly black – townships like KwaMashu and Umlazi are often avoided by tourists who believe too much of the hype of the Western media. But downtown, the vibe feels more mixed and an adventurous explorer can sample all of these flavours – from some of the best curries outside the Indian subcontinent, to barbecued meat and house music in KwaMashu, and café culture or fine dining in the northern suburbs.All of which might be a bit bewildering for a short stay. But Durbanites’ lack of pretension and dedication to lighting up the night means there’s always a party somewhere to even things out. As local gqom superstar DJ Target says: “People in Durban, they don’t want to sleep …”People in Durban love dancing, drinking and partying. They don’t like to sleep. We call the parties “morning bangs”.I was a dancer, and used to dance to electro – I loved the fast-step music. I always wanted to make that sort of music, but mix it with South African house. I started to play in taverns and they used different words to describe it – but gqom (meaning “drum” in Zulu, “noise” in youth culture) – that was the name that people loved. Gqom is South African electro, fast music. When you’re playing it, people dance. And gqom is special to Durban.The main club I play in is called , which is on Dr Pixley Kaseme Street, in the Belmont Shopping Arcade, right next to South Beach. Every weekend, people come in huge numbers. On its two dance floors people will be bouncing to gqom, but they also have slot machines for those feeling lucky – or tired.There are good clubs all over the city, such as , on Samora Machel St in Central, which is a favourite for gqom lovers, and where the dance floors are packed until dawn. Another in Central is , on Monty Naicker Road, a small club that’s always full. During the day, it’s an upmarket bar where people can have a drink while listening to music, but at night it throws great parties.Away from the city centre, there is  in Umlazi township, which has cheap drinks and appeals to a mixed crowd, aged between 20 and 40, who party to DJs and bands in an open-air space. In my home town of KwaMashu, north of Durban, there’s , and in Inanda, a township in eastern KwaZulu-Natal,  has regular DJs and a spacious outside dance floor. For people who follow a softer type of music  in South Beach plays deep house and R&B.Each of these Durban hotspots has a different crowd, from a who’s who of Durban politicians and celebrities, to tourists wanting to experience the city like locals.The early mornings are the best time of day in Durban during the summer, and the  beach cafe in Central (it has five branches in and around Durban), offers about as close as you can get to breakfast on the sand. Watch the sun rise and enjoy breakfast options from scrambled eggs to a full farmhouse breakfast for 64 rand (about £3).Durban is rightly famous for its curries, and  in Musgrave serves a wonderful selection. I particularly like the red and yellow potato curries on its veg mains menu for under £2, and traditional dishes such as breyani (biryani elsewhere), rogan josh and madras in a quintessentially Indian setting.  (Cape Town branch ) in Sparks Road is known locally as Johnnies and serves legendary roti rolls all night long.For drinks, Panorama Bar at the luxurious is the best place to watch the surf while enjoying a sundowner, with great views of the Bay of Plenty. Simple but stylish Umhlanga (north Durban) venue  is the brainchild of renowned mixologist . His knowledge and passion for cocktails is unmatched, down to the ice cubes that he makes on site to achieve the perfect mix. Try his Nectar of the Gods – gin with fresh nectarine, raspberry liqueur, lychee and freshly pressed apple.Opened to the public in November 2015,  produces spirits made with local ingredients, including vodka, gin, cachaça and absinthe. Its selection of gourmet street food has a legion of loyal followers – signature dishes include a beef and oxtail burger with bacon and pineapple jam, lamb jalfrezi burger and truffled biltong mac’n’chini (its take on arancini rice balls)Heading 14 miles into Durban’s western hinterland, next to Pinetown taxi rank is , an institution that has hosted top jazz artists for more than 20 years, and comes alive on Sundays with live jazz, flame-cooked fatty chicken and beers served by the quart. on Timoni Rd in KwaMashu is township-style (which literally means “hot meat”). Buy your meat by the kilo from Hlabisa’s butchery and enjoy a cold beer while it is expertly  (barbecued). If you’re nervous about navigating KwaMashu township on your own, ask  to take you there.In terms of art, Durban is weird. It goes in cycles. It’s prolific and then there’s a downturn of two, three years before the next crop comes through, as artists rebel in small waves against the more commercial, mainstream side. There are often group shows at , in a light industry zone in Windermere, two miles north of Central. It’s a cool, small gallery started 12 years ago by Karen and Claus Bradtke, that constantly has shows by new young artists.The , off the Victoria Embankment (Esplanade), has been going for 50 years – Hugo Bartel, an eccentric Austrian entrepreneur and adventurer, left millions of rand in his will to establish an arts trust. Its mission is “to celebrate the arts and culture of Durban, Kwa-Zulu Natal and South Africa by promoting local talent”, and to that end the centre teaches locals sculpture and painting, for example, as well putting on workshops that turn into exhibitions. Situated in the harbour, it’s a great place to view art and chill out.I used to shoot  a few years ago, and I would create landscapes inspired by the beachfront, where I’ve lived for so long. The beachfront scenarios change. The actual Golden Mile, running from South Beach up to the Suncoast Casino towards the Moses Mabhida Stadium, is simple and chilled, but the further north you go, the more beautiful it gets. On the other side of the harbour, there’s the Bluff, where there are mangrove swamps.There’s a lot of heritage in places like Tongaat – Indian communities that I’ve shot a lot. The expansive sugar cane fields there have created backgrounds for my collages. You can go through the fields and find communities living among the sugar cane.The  are really fun to view – from traditional massive sand castles to life-like rhinos and horses. But my favourite was a six-foot skeleton lounging on a couch. And if you’re into graffiti, the skate park at Bay of Plenty is cool. In Cape Town, street art is banned, but here in Durban, there are legal walls where people can paint without getting hassled.  (£27pp for four-five hours including burger and beer) offers specific walks based on seeing urban art. They visit little-known urban graffiti galleries as well as more established graffiti hubs like the suburb of Glenwood and Rivertown Precinct, and tours feature artists such as  and . You can also go to the townships and visit taverns and shacks which some of the local street artists have painted.Compared with , Durban is very relaxed, but it’s also a bit conservative. In Joburg it’s easy to sport, say, blue braids, which might be frowned upon in some areas here. But a group of young designers in Durban are into experimenting and challenging the conservative view. Top of the list to check out would be the boutiques at , part of the urban regeneration project in the Rivertown Precinct, South Beach. They offer a wide variety of styles, from edgy streetwear by ,  and  to high-fashion pieces by young designers like  and , who produces very interesting, funky clothing, and who blogs prolifically about fashion. As well as fashion outlets, 8 Morrison Street also has really cool little galleries like  (Arts in South Africa Now) – which has local hand-painted fabrics, prints and ceramics – and decor shop .The  in the suburb of Westville is great if you are looking for on-trend quality and South African-made clothing. You can find designers like , whose style is classic with a twist, in an amazing array of fabrics.  produces pieces in which you can dress up or down depending on occasion or mood. My own clothing range is plus-sized ladies’ wear, because there is a market in Durban for women who want to look stylish but can only find conservative clothes in the shops. It’s very feminine – bold, ethnic prints given an update by pairing them with modern silhouettes and everyday patterns.  is on Matthews Meyiwa Rd in Morningside (three miles north of Central), in the middle of Durban’s trendiest area.The  – a platform for local foodies and designers to showcase their products on the first Saturday of the month at the Moses Mabhida Stadium – offers a unique range of quality handmade African clothing and accessories. You’ll find the quirky, the edgy and more sophisticated items, including African beaded jewellery, handmade bags from recycled material, and sterling silver jewellery. There’s also a guy called Sanele Cele, and his very cool streetwear brand, . I love the way he’s not afraid to experiment with clothes. He’s one to watch, and has a studio on Umgeni Road in Morningside. For something vintage and unique, areas like Victoria Street in the CBD have the most gorgeous vintage clothing and coats sold on the street at bargain prices.I’m from Port St John originally, in the Transkei, and this is my second year in Durban. I moved because of surfing: to try and get in the water more and get exposure. I surf all day pretty much, and the best surf in Durban for me is New Pier, which is next to South Beach. You can surf pretty much anywhere along the Golden Mile, but if the waves are really crazy, South Beach is the place to be. My friend and I also try and surf a lot of other spots outside the city – all the way down to places like Green Point (40 minutes’ drive south of Durban). But sometimes, you’ll go to Cave Rock, on the foreshore of Durban Bluff, and it will be absolutely cooking. February is the best time of the year for surfing in Durban, when the waves are absolutely pumping.I’m always hanging out on the beach when I’m not surfing, usually by . It’s the way I live my life, and where I spend most of my time. The beach culture here is still very alive and that helps the lifesaving clubs, which run their own superb restaurants. The  at Addington beach is a friendly environment for visitors and cooks up some good food, and there’s also  on North Beach. I like to grab a bite at  on South Beach and , again on Addington, is a Durban promenade institution that serves breakfast, burgers and pizzas.Surfboard makers are outstanding in Durban – this is where legends  and  began shaping  in a small workshop in 1964. And the surf community mingles daily in and out of the water – guys like , ,  and . I’m not too brand loyal, but I get cool stuff from  at the back of Victoria Park, and  in uShaka Centre, which stocks all the major brands. There are also guys like , at uShaka Marine World, for touristy activities in the water, like surfing lessons, stand-up paddleboarding and boat trips.When I’m not surfing I do a little bit of skateboarding. There’s a beach skate park on Snell Parade, the next beach up from North Beach, right on the promenade. That’s where everyone in Durban goes to skate.The coast just to the north of Durban, from  to  and further, offers nature lovers the most spectacular Indian Ocean experiences. If you visit in the colder months, August-October, you’ll be sure to spot whales and dolphins just off the shore. Visit the  for Sunday lunch, or oysters (no worries if you just pop up from the beach in a bikini/bathing suit). Further north, there is the  where one can see hippos and other amazing wildlife. I love this part of South Africa, lovely people, lovely climate – and affordable too.We are Canadian sailors onboard our yacht waiting here in Durban marina for good weather to sail to Cape Town. We have been exploring the Durban neighbourhoods by walking and taxi. Our first foray was to the Glenwood neighbourhood, for the  with its huge collection of African arts and crafts at 500 Esther Roberts Road. Exceptional. We were guided through by the assistant curator. Then, down the hill to the artisanal , where we spotted the  on their shelf. Devoured the best bread after a year of next to no bread while sailing the Indian Ocean. Next door we ate lunch at the cafe – wholesome, great coffee and iced rooibos tea. We walked further to Bulwer Road and explored the . Ended the day at Checkers grocery store on Helen Josephs Road to buy fresh veggies and boerwors for supper on the boat. Another day we discovered the affordable  which we took to the shoreline where we walked a few miles along this outstanding people-watching beach. Another taxi took us to the Florida Road neighbourhood, in Windermere, to visit the  and the  just a few steps away. We had a tasty lunch at the  before walking to the Windermere shopping centre to once again buy groceries for an onboard feast. Food is definitely the theme. We have also filled in our forced wait with a visit to the  in Musgrave, a city guided walking tour, the huge  and of course, a visit to one of the city’s marine chandleries. The best thing has been finding neighbourhoods like Glenwood, sitting in cafes and watching Durban street life pass us by.I worked in Durban for three months, and a colleague told me about a group of locals who play volleyball on the beach every Friday. A warm, welcoming group, who become lifelong friends. It would continue rain or sunshine. Everyone from any background was welcome. We would alll go for a drink to a local bar afterwards.A good few years ago, while talking to my wife’s grandma about her sea voyage to India from Liverpool in 1940, she mentioned that they had stopped in Durban. As we were trying to find out all about this amazing war-time odyssey, we asked her about her impressions of the places she had stopped off at. When it got to Durban, she paused for a moment, reflecting on her distant memories and said: “Durban … it had a lovely Woolworths!” Damning with faint praise or just comparing with something familiar? We shall never know.What a find this place was.  is an amazing second hand book shop at 48a Florida Road I found on my last trip to Durban. The interior is everything a second hand book shop should be – calm, atmospheric, and inspiring, making you want to grab books off the shelf and read them. The original owner was an anti-apartheid activist, and a local hero, with much of the shop dedicated to his story. The rest is given over to a vast collection of books. If you have an interest in Africana stuff, or African literature this is the place. Other shouts in Durban are the  (146 Mahatma Gandhi Rd), which has a great harbourside setting, for some jazz and drinks, and  on the beach front [see above] for chicken burgers.</content>
<class_name>Durban holidays,South Africa holidays,Africa holidays,Beach holidays,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-03T06:00:55+0000</date>
<title>The alternative city guide to Durban, South Africa</title>
<content>ournalist Nellie Bly jumped off the page at me as I was researching Victorian female travellers. The more I got to know her, the more I was intrigued by this fearless character who wouldn’t take no for an answer. Her crusades in print brought reforms in women’s asylums, orphanages, sweatshops and prisons.The story that brought Bly the most acclaim was circling the globe in 72 days in 1890, beating the fictitious record in Jules Verne’s Around the World in 80 Days. One hundred and twenty five years later, I followed in her footsteps.We both travelled alone with one small bag. She went by ocean liner and train. I flew. She journeyed through the Victorian age. I travelled through the information age, . Tracing Bly’s race around the planet expanded my own world of adventure, and I became a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society. The UK and Ireland have produced many bold female travellers. My goal is to put them “on the map” as role models encouraging us to travel out of our comfort zones.Just start; that’s the best way to get going on an adventure, according to Anna McNuff who urges people to leave their fears at home and get outside. She would know. In 2013, she cycled seven months and 11,000 miles on a pink bike taking in every state in the US. Last year she ran 1,911 miles along New Zealand’s . McNuff calls them her mega-adventures, but she’s also a fan of mini-adventures, such as running along Hadrian’s Wall, rollerblading 100 miles around Amsterdam, and midweek camping escapades around London. She recently walked out of her back gate with a bivvy bag, backpack, and an open European itinerary to be decided by votes from her followers on social media. McNuff is also on a mission to get children outdoors and exploring. Through her endurance challenges, she’s raised awareness, as well as more than £20,000 for the charities  and . “I’m inspired by people who dive so deep into their personal well of self-belief that they achieve things which most would deem impossible,” she says. Gosling is a time traveller: she fuses all the things she loves best – history, exercise and inspiring stories – into momentous challenges that reignite the past. She had never been on an expedition when she set off in August 2015 to travel 5,000 miles on foot and bicycle along the 15 countries bordering the iron curtain separating western Europe from the former Soviet Union. Postwar history came alive for her, an NHS physiotherapist, who was four-years-old when the Berlin Wall came down. Gosling will be closer to home, but further back in history, with a 240-mile Tudor-themed run from Bosworth Field, site of the last battle of the War of the Roses, to Westminster Abbey, final resting place of Elizabeth I. She’ll be running 12-15 miles a day over two weeks (she started 26 March) – and she wants you to join her along the way. Follow the route . Kirk’s quest is to get people to live more adventurously. She has walked across Nicaragua, searched for camels in China’s Taklamakan desert, so-called Desert of Death, discovered rock paintings in Lesotho and was skipper of the first female crew to row non-stop around Britain, in a punishing 2,101-mile, 51-day voyage. An expert expedition leader, she has managed remote trips for outdoor survival gurus Ray Mears and Bear Grylls. She launched , a social enterprise connecting people to adventures in the UK and overseas in 2009. It’s now a community of 25,000 from total beginners to experienced explorers who can link up with adventures, team-mates and adventure industry jobs. Currently, she’s establishing Britain’s first national day of adventure, Wild Night Out, to help disadvantaged kids get outdoors. “I’ve seen adventure change people’s lives, by giving inspiration and building confidence, creativity and a reconnection with nature,” she says.Engelkamp trekked 1,000 miles around the circumference of Wales with a headstrong donkey named Chico. The pair walked for nearly six months in 2013 starting and ending in Engelkamp’s hometown of Aberystwyth. Although the inspiration for her journey came from the fact that Wales had recently become the first country in the world , she discovered, a little too late, that her donkey couldn’t manage the 964 stiles and 783 kissing gates ahead of them. With no set course and no itinerary, they travelled as close to the coast and borders as they could; mainly wild camping, and sometimes sleeping in tipis, yurts and hay barns. Engelkamp embarked on a dream and returned with a plan to capture the journey in a book and film through crowdfunding. Eight hundred and twenty nine backers pledged £35,000 to make it happen.  recounts the story of Hannah and Chico’s odyssey in print and DVD. Engelkamp says: “Walking with a donkey was only strange by being about 60 years late. We were walking on green lanes and drove roads made for animal traffic – get out of your car and that history is still there, and easily revived.” Former English and drama teacher Hill-Murphy has travelled to inhospitable places to recreate the journeys of daring female adventurers from the past. In tracking four valiant women who left inhibition at home and headed into the unknown, she pays tribute to their spirit and achievements. She has followed in the footsteps of Victorian explorers Isabella Bird, who travelled by yak across the Digar-La Pass in Ladakh, India, and Mary Kingsley – who pioneered the route to the summit of the volcano Mount Cameroon; and also Kate Marsden, who trudged from Moscow to Siberia in search of a cure for leprosy (a doctor had tipped her off about the curative properties of a herb there). Hill-Murphy also braved piranha-infested waters in a canoe to replicate the 1769 expedition of Isabel Godin, the only survivor of a 42-person, 3,000-mile expedition along the Amazon. Hill-Murphy’s travels and those of her heroines come to life in her recent book Adventuresses. She’s now writing a biography of . A fall on a rock-climbing expedition in 1992 almost changed everything for Karen Darke. She thought she would rather be dead than paralysed; that her adventures were over. But with friends, creativity and perseverance, she has found that most things are possible, including becoming a Paralympics silver medallist and an irrepressible traveller. Among other astonishing feats, she has crossed Greenland’s ice cap sitting on skis, using her arms to propel her; kayaked from Canada to Alaska over three months, and handcycled over the Himalayas. She denies being an adrenalin junkie, but admits to an addiction to the outdoors. Now she’s on the Road to Rio, training with the British paracycling team for the 2016 Paralympics in Brazil. Along the way, she’s squeezing in adventures on wheels, water and snow. Darke is the author of If You Fall … and . She explains: “I think adventures can be anything – small or large – in your garden or on the other side of the world. It’s all about entering into the unknown and doing something that seems to some degree unachievable.” Outen set out from Tower Bridge in April 2011 on her global expedition London2London via the World. Her body was her only engine. Four and a half years and 25,000 miles later she had rowed, cycled and kayaked her way around the northern hemisphere. Nothing stopped her; not even hurricanes, typhoons or loneliness. Outen’s first major expedition was a solo row across the Indian Ocean in 2009, where she set records as the first woman and youngest person to accomplish such a feat. She has captured her epic expeditions in the books , and Dare to Do – chronicling her world journey and due out in November 2016. She was named Adventurer of the Year at the  on 16 March in Glasgow. She’s a runner, skydiver, bungee jumper, climber, cyclist and world traveller … and a former banker. In 2013 she swapped the rat race for marathons and other gruelling challenges and is currently training for the world’s toughest footrace, the 200-mile  across the Sahara. Now an adventure aficionado, Williams’ new vocation is to motivate and inspire women and girls to challenge themselves. She’s the founder and host of the , weekly interviews where female adventurers share their journeys first-hand. From gold medallists to grandmothers, Williams’ podcasts include celebrated polar explorers Ann Daniels and Felicity Aston, and dozens of other female adventurers. Timmis is a runner, cyclist and climber, she was honoured in the 2015 National Adventure Awards for physical endeavour. At 32, she’s already tackled some of the world’s toughest challenges, but takes it all in her stride. Last May, Timmis discarded her running shoes and rollerskated across the Netherlands in seven days with her friend Emily Pitts. Thanks to couchsurfing and imaginative budgeting, they only spent £245 each – proving that adventures can be created on a shoestring. A travel legend, Murphy has always blazed her own trails. Now in her 80s, she continues to journey around the world as she has for more than five decades – usually alone and mostly on a bicycle. She is Ireland’s most prolific travel writer and is best known for her 1965 book . Another 20 titles have followed, most recently Between River and Sea: Encounters in Israel and Palestine (2015). She travels with the bare minimum, counting on the hospitality of local people. Her daughter Rachel and three grand-daughters live in Italy and join Murphy on her journeys when possible. The  is released on 23 April. “Choose your country, use guidebooks to identify the areas most frequented by foreigners – and then go in the opposite direction,” says Murphy. </content>
<class_name>Adventure travel,Top 10s,Women,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T11:04:13+0100</date>
<title>10 of the most inspiring contemporary female adventurers</title>
<content>This week we’re searching for tips on Bali and Lombok. From idyllic beaches to stunning hot springs and volcanoes, authentic cultural experiences to great restaurants and bars – we want you to tell us all about the best places to visit on the stunning islands.Send us your tips via  – including as much detail as you can (with website and prices if possible) and you could win a £200 hotel voucher. The best tips will appear in print in next weekend’s Travel section and the winner, chosen by Tom Hall of Lonely Planet, will receive a £200 hotel voucher from , allowing you to stay in more than 260,000 places worldwide. Submit your tip by clicking the blue button and using the text tab.You’re welcome to add a photo if you own the copyright to it – but it’s the text we’ll be judging!. .  is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.</content>
<class_name>Indonesia holidays,Bali holidays,Asia,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:12:09+0100</date>
<title>Bali and Lombok: send us your tips​ ​and you could win a £200 hotel voucher</title>
<content>y baptism as an independent traveller began, aged 18, in July 2007 with a 36-hour train journey from London to Budapest. I left with three friends and, flanked by dozens of other school leavers, travelled across the continent with the help of the few hundred quid we had saved and an Interrail youth pass.This week, this beloved rite of passage – a month of almost unrestricted train travel around Europe for a bargain £326 – was sucked into the muck of the EU referendum debate. Nicky Morgan (AKA the most down-with-the-kidz Tory currently available for media events) argued that . One of these reasons, according to Morgan, is that Brexit would mean travellers would no longer be covered by European health insurance.I wish I’d known this back in 2007, when we hopped on a train to Serbia (not, I repeat, NOT an EU country) to go to the . Whether or not our health cards would be valid there didn’t factor in our decision to travel to a non-EU, non-EEA country and get trashed on cheap vodka and dodgy drugs, stumbling around a giant castle listening to techno in the company of thousands of huge men in vests and a lot of terrifying Serbian police officers. In fact, although I didn’t know this at the time, many non-EU countries, including Serbia, have reciprocal health agreements with the UK. Also, we had travel insurance. So ... whatevs.In any case, the Interrail project transcends the EU. The UK became an Interrail country when the programme launched in 1972, a year before we joined the union. In addition to Serbia, many non-EU countries accept the pass, such as Turkey, Norway, Macedonia and Montenegro. While the EU has descended into a self-interested two-tier economic face-off, Interrail remains true to its original unifying ideals, providing an affordable, accessible mechanism for cultural exchange among Europeans.This is why Interrail retains its appeal more than four decades on. Concerns about safety are unlikely to deter the youth of Europe from embarking on a train-powered adventure across the continent, just as our parents did before us. It was always the slight recklessness of the journey – getting drunk, losing passports, causing moderate amounts of trouble and having no idea which country we would travel to next – that made it so much fun.That trip provided me with some of my favourite memories of travelling. Brexit can never take that away from us – but, whatever the outcome of the referendum, it’s unlikely to be something that is spoiled for future generations either.</content>
<class_name>Europe holidays,Rail transport,Rail travel,Rail fares,Transport,Nicky Morgan,EU referendum,European Union,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:47:17+0100</date>
<title>Cheap vodka and giant castles: the joy of Interrail</title>
<content>Despite the somewhat farcical nature of , which has now come to a peaceful conclusion, any aeroplane incident is liable to raise more concerns in the mind of the travelling public.The bombing of the Russian Metrojet airliner in October, and subsequent questions about the efficacy of Egypt’s aviation security, virtually ended the tourism industry in its Red Sea resorts. So Egyptian authorities will doubtless be mightily relieved that Tuesday’s hijacking does not have links to Isis-related terror – as one official told the Guardian, not a terrorist, just an idiot. Had the hijacker proved to be armed, or to havesmuggled aboard the “suicide belt” that he was claiming to wear, there would have been more difficult questions for airport authorities to answer. But the explosives turned out to be fake, and it is unclear whether the hijacker made it to the A320’s flight deck (cockpit) or simply threatened crew and passengers in the cabin with his purported explosives. At a brief news conference, authorities stressed they had reacted as if the hijacker “represented the highest possible danger”. Passengers would forgive crew for erring on the side of caution - but the fact that they believed he could have smuggled the belt on board perhaps does not demonstrate enormous faith in security at Alexandria’s new Borg El-Arab airport. However, an incident like this, experts say, could have happened on any plane. In this scenario, Egypt’s security authorities have no case to answer so far. Philip Baum, author of Violence in the Skies: A history of aircraft hijacking and bombing, said: “Generally it’s up to the captain of the aircraft to determine whether they have someone with suicidal intent. Obviously first you’d try to overpower them if so. But if they feel it could be managed by following his demands, a landing without anyone being hurt, then that’s what you’d do.“It sounds like the 2006 Turkish Airlines hijack from Tirana to Istanbul: you had a lone hijacker claiming to carry explosives, but as it happened he had nothing on him.”On that occasion, the hijacker managed to get into the flight deck when they were serving coffee, and crew believed his claims that he not only had explosives but colleagues controlling the cabin.Then there is the question of whose laws he will be tried under. In international aviation, for most laws – more frequently invoked for questions of labour and taxation – a plane is considered part of the territory of the state to which it is registered once the doors have closed at an airport. With a hijacking, primary jurisdiction remains the state where the airline is registered, but international law would consider where the plane is flying, and where it lands, as well as the perpetrator’s nationality - and where appropriate, that of the victims. In this case – an Egyptian man on an Egyptian airline, hijacking a domestic flight – it clearly is within Egyptian jurisdiction. But Cypriot, and EU law, could also apply – particularly if the hijacker claims asylum. Previous hijackers have been tried and imprisoned in the countries where they have landed, after claiming asylum, such as the Afghans who diverted a Sudan Airways flight to Stansted in 1996, also via Larnaca, one of whom ended up working as a cleaner for British Airways at Heathrow.Most countries with established air traffic sign up to the international conventions covering hijacking, Tokyo and Montreal, and in general, the state where the aircraft is registered would be most likely to prosecute, said James Healy-Pratt, head of aviation at Stewart’s Law. “Should that state not exercise that jurisdiction, others would be expected to step in.” Healy-Pratt added: “Cyprus could try him, but would usually accede to Egypt’s request to extradite him and try him, assuming he could get a fair trial.” An asylum claim would have to be considered, Baum suggested: “If he’s got psychological problems there will be concerns about repatriating him to .”</content>
<class_name>Egypt,Africa,Middle East and North Africa,Air transport,Cyprus,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T11:27:59+0100</date>
<title>EgyptAir hijacking another blow for Egyptian airport authorities</title>
<content>a lok Phengparkdee has been turning bombs into spoons since he was eight. He lives in Ban Napia and works with the relics of the  in this tiny country while the world’s attention was focused next door on Vietnam.For nine years during the 60s and 70s, the US unleashed millions of bombs on Laos, making it the . Ban Napia, in Xiang Khouang province in the north-east, is known as the war spoon village.La lok, 23, learned how to make spoons from his father, who began working with unexploded bombs, or ordnance (UXOs), in 1978.“There were bombs everywhere then,” La lok says. “The UXOs were just another resource. They were everywhere, so we decided to make the most of what we have.”The spoon makers of Ban Napia epitomise a can-do-make-do spirit that is fashioning a way forward for this nation of 7 million people, where there have been  because of UXOs since the war ended. This year, Barack Obama . He is  a significant increase in US involvement in the nation’s long recovery from war. New funds for development or mine clearance could offer a boost to entrepreneurs who are already doing business among the bombs. The US had been criticised for how little it did to tackle the legacy of its war. In the 1990s and 2000s, the US contributed  – it spent more than $13m a day on bombs between 1964–73. In 2015, US funding rose  and Obama is expected to increase it again.Xiang Khouang, a largely agricultural province, was one of the most heavily bombed areas and is littered with millions of UXOs. “People are afraid to open new land to farming because they fear they will hit a UXO and it will blow up,” says , the founder of Mulberries silk farm.Chanthavong was 11 when she fled to the capital, Vientiane, to escape the bombing, walking 600km in her bare feet. “After the war ended, I wanted to help my province recover,” she says. And so she founded a co-operative to produce silk in 1976.Today, Chanthavong’s farm hatches worms then transports them to villages all over Xiang Khouang, where they are raised. “We train all the villagers working with us and show them how to safely clear land and plant mulberry trees to feed the worms.” Chanthavong then buys the silk from them to weave scarves and other cloth.The project employs 50 people at the farm and works with 600 rural families. “We don’t make much money – that’s not the point. After the war people were very poor, especially women, so we wanted to help.”Chanthavong was nominated for the 2005 Nobel peace prize and won the 2015  for reviving “the ancient Laotian art of silk weaving, creating livelihoods for thousands of poor, war-displaced Laotians”. The provincial government recently pledged to help her find new villages to join the project. The farm hopes to double its reach into rural Xiang Khouang and add 600 families by 2020.Other agricultural projects are taking off in the province, despite facing similar obstacles. In 2014, California-based  began to grow castor beans on 298 hectares (736 acres), employing up to 900 workers in the high season, though the project had to be scaled back.“We worked with  [a government UXO removal operation] to help clear the land before we started planting,” senior managing director Tyler Garner, 30, says in Xiang Khouang’s provincial capital, Phonsavan. “But in some places there were just too many – we would uncover three and UXO Lao would remove them and the next day we would find four more in nearly the same spot.”In the end, 60 hectares were deemed too contaminated and those areas are now roped off.UXOs are also limiting the fledgling tourism sector, which is becoming a key revenue source and growing annually at  (pdf).Much of Xiang Khouang is still off-limits because of the bombs, but it does have tourist sites, including the  – giant stone jars of unknown ancient origin scattered throughout the land. They were heavily bombed during the war and most are still too dangerous to visit. But three sites that were cleared between 1991 and 2004 are now attracting visitors.“A lot of tourists hear about the UXOs and they think Xiang Khouang is too dangerous. A lot more would come if we cleared the UXOs,” says Nouds Phetrasy, 36, a tour guide working here since 2001.Demining is a slow and expensive process as clearance teams have to survey each field with metal detectors and then carefully blow up any devices they find.  relies heavily on aid to fund the teams, and this dependence limits the number of trained clearance teams and slows the pace of progress.New funding could help speed development for most of these nascent industries, though there is one that it may destroy – the spoon-making scheme in Ban Napia.Like La lok, Son Mia Seeonchan, 37, disarms UXOs, melts them in a homemade kiln and then recasts the metal as spoons and other household items for sale. Seeonchan learned the craft from his parents and is now teaching his children. “It was very difficult after the war and we had to use any resources we could, even bombs,” he says, “but maybe that’s starting to change. Maybe my children will be the last generation that have to work with the bombs.”</content>
<class_name>Conflict and development,Laos,Asia Pacific,Aid,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:00:06+0100</date>
<title>Turning bombs into spoons – relics of the secret US war in Laos</title>
<content>Italian anti-corruption investigators have opened a formal investigation into Shell’s acquisition of a stake in a $1.09bn (£755m) oil block in .Shell co-owns the offshore oil block with the Italian energy group Eni. Prosecutors in Milan have been investigating Eni executives involved in the deal since 2014. It seems .The Anglo-Dutch oil giant confirmed on Wednesday that its offices had been “visited” by anti-fraud investigators in February.A spokesman for Shell said: “The visit was related to OPL 245, an offshore block in Nigeria that was the subject of a series of long-standing disputes with the federal government of Nigeria. Shell is cooperating with the authorities and is looking into the allegations, which it takes seriously.”The Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera reported that the Dutch Financial Intelligence and Investigation Service (FIOD) and the Dutch public prosecutor had raided the multinational’s office in the Hague. The oil block is estimated to contain up to 9bn barrels of crude, and has been at the centre of a series of disputes since 1998.Dan Etete, who was oil minister in Nigeria under the military dictator general Sani Abacha, awarded the oil block to a company called Malabu oil.The field was subsequently sold in 2011 to Eni and Shell. Shell and Eni paid the Nigerian government, but $1.09bn was subsequently sent to Malabu.Shell and Eni both insist that they did not know this would happen. The probe into Eni was triggered after an intermediary in the deal, Emeka Obi, sued Malabu in Britain’s high court. In response to the news that it is being drawn into the investigation a spokesman said: “Shell attaches the greatest importance to business integrity. “It’s one of our core values and is a central tenet of the principles that govern the way we do business. All employees are expected to uphold these principles and failure to do so will result in consequences up to and including dismissal.” </content>
<class_name>Natural resources and development,Environmental sustainability,Sustainable development,Oil,Royal Dutch Shell,Nigeria,Africa,Oil and gas companies,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:10:48+0100</date>
<title>Shell faces corruption probe over $1bn oil deal in Nigeria</title>
<content>Former Labor leader Mark Latham  the Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. In Sydney’s Daily Telegraph, Latham acknowledged that Trump was “by no means perfect”, but said his foreign policy was in Australia’s national interest: “I much prefer his approach to the lying snakes of machine politics and media manipulation.”Latham is by no means perfect, either – just one of the traits he has in common with his preferred candidate. It might seem an unlikely endorsement, but the two are both controversial contrarians with a talent for making headlines with their inflammatory, sometimes mind-boggling statements. The question is: can you tell them apart?Who said it?</content>
<class_name>Donald Trump,Mark Latham,US politics,Labor party,Republicans,Australian politics,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T06:47:58+0100</date>
<title>Donald Trump or Mark Latham? Which pugnacious politician said it – quiz</title>
<content>The most high-profile candidate to date, Guterres was Portugal’s prime minister from 1995 to 2002 and then UN high commissioner for refugees for a decade from 2005 to 2015, where he often played the role of the west’s conscience as it failed to respond adequately to the greatest  since the second world war. The UNHCR is generally seen as one of the more functional arms of the UN and is held in high esteem. There is no doubt Guterres has ample experience of dealing with both the UN machine and with member states, and is a passionate spokesman. Perhaps too passionate for the security council “P5” powers, who may fear his independent streak. His gender and region of origin also weigh against him.Gherman was deputy prime minister and foreign minister in Moldova and has been an ambassador in several European capitals. Her principal UN involvement has been helping to push its development agenda with an emphasis on human rights and gender equality. Her application letter points out that in 2014 the Guardian listed her as one of “ in global politics who are leading change all over the world”. The long-running friction between Moldova and Russia over the breakaway region of  could mean she is blocked by Moscow.Türk is one of modern Slovenia’s founding fathers, having led the campaign for human rights in the last years of Yugoslavia, as well as being a longstanding presence at the UN. In 1985, when he was 33, he drafted the text of the . He served as assistant secretary general for political affairs under Kofi Annan, and then rounded off his career in the largely ceremonial role of Slovenian president 2007-12. Luksic is the former prime minister and current foreign minister of another small former Yugoslav republic, Montenegro, and is not yet 40, making him one of the younger contenders. He has been on the pro-western, pro-Nato wing of Montenegrin politics, which will not endear him to Moscow. On the other hand he is one of the more literary of the candidates, having published three volumes of poetry and prose, The Book of Laughter, The Book of Fear and The Book of Doubt – all of which would come in handy in the UN top job. Pusić, Croatia’s foreign minister and deputy prime minister, has impeccable pro-democracy credentials. She set up the first feminist organisation in former Yugoslavia, organised civic society meetings between Croatians and Serbians when the two countries were at war and has been a consistent advocate for LGBT rights in post-communist Croatia, riling the right and the church hierarchy. That activism and her generally pro-western record are likely to be an issue for Moscow.Another former foreign minister, from another former Yugoslav republic, Kerim is Macedonia’s entry to the contest. His claim to UN experience is his time spent as president of the general assembly from 2007 and 2008. He also stands out a little from the crowd because he has hands-on business experience, running a media company in Skopje. He also claims to speak nine languages, though four of them are pretty similar.The Bulgarian director-general of  is an early favourite in the race because she ticks a lot of boxes. She is a woman who has run a big UN institution for seven years, she has friendly relations with Moscow (which may believe she will be sympathetic, having grown up in a true-believer communist household), and she has already won something of a Bulgarian primary, edging out another strong contender, Kristalina Georgieva, an EU commissioner and economist, to get Sofia’s official nomination.The former New Zealand prime minister and head of the UN’s development programme is the  in the organisation. Her UNDP role has won her many developing world friends in the general assembly. Furthermore, no one from her region has ever had the top job, so her backers could argue it is as much her turn as any of the eastern Europeans. Merkel has been touted as a possible contender as a result of her political clout for being the most powerful, enduring political figure in Europe, and moral authority for her principled stand towards the refugee crisis. If she were to leave the German chancellery, she would quickly become an interesting candidate, but her political career in her homeland still seems to have some time to run, and it is unclear whether she would give up a position of real geopolitical power to be a servant to other member states on the security council.</content>
<class_name>United Nations,Ban Ki-moon,Angela Merkel,Unesco,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T15:59:53+0100</date>
<title>Who will succeed Ban Ki-moon? A guide to the possible candidates</title>
<content>After 13 years of Workers party rule in , there is now a very real prospect of a change of government. For those hoping for cleaner as well as more stable politics, the question is whether there will also be a shift in the position of the increasingly influential judiciary.Dilma Rousseff’s ruling coalition was on the verge of collapsing on Tuesday under the weight of , a  and an impeachment drive against the president.Now the head of a dwindling minority government, Rousseff – a former Marxist guerrilla who was imprisoned during the dictatorship – will not give up without a fight. But she will have to make a remarkable recovery from her political wounds to survive the coming impeachment battles.For the vast majority of the Brazilian public, her exit would come as a relief. A poll published on Wednesday showed Rousseff’s approval ratings continued to linger at the 10% level.Despite the early successes of the Workers party in reducing poverty, inequality and unemployment, the government – like many other leftwing administrations in Latin America – has struggled to maintain momentum after more than 10 years in power.Former president  (more widely known simply as Lula) recognised the decline on Monday, when he compared the old troika of leftwing leaders – himself, former Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez and Argentina’s Néstor Kirchner – . As well as nostalgia and self-aggrandisement, his words were also a lament that there is no political parallel today.The cause of this demise is now the subject of furious debate. Lula and many in the Workers party feel they are the victims of a “coup” orchestrated by opponents who were unable to accept defeat in the last election. They blame congress, the media, the markets and the judiciary for undermining a democratically elected government.There is some truth in these claims, but analysts say the Workers party must also blame themselves. They have failed to meet rising expectations. Their early idealism has been corroded by cynicism, openness has given way to defensiveness, and promises of clean politics have been belied by spectacular corruption scandals.First there was the vote-buying scheme known as , . Now, there is the even vaster  (Car Wash) investigation into contract-rigging and kickbacks at the state-run Petrobras oil company that was used to channel billions of dollars into political campaigns – mostly for the ruling parties. Close to 50 politicians have been charged or jailed, including the former treasurer of the Workers party. Lula too is under intense scrutiny. His home and other properties have been raided and he was briefly detained and interrogated by federal police. He and Rousseff (who is not accused of any crime) deny involvement in these bribery networks. But as heads of party and state, they are, at the very least guilty of gross negligence in allowing them to flourish.Corruption did not start with the Workers party. It is how politics has long been done in Brazil. With so many parties, so many elections and such a vast country, huge sums of money are needed to win elections – and effectively buy majorities. A new administration might be more capable and more stable, but it is likely to be at least as tainted as the old.The Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB), which abandoned the coalition yesterday, is the biggest party in congress and the base of every government since the reintroduction of democracy in 1985. . Any wrongdoing committed by Rousseff has been signed off on by this party. The turmoil for which the president is blamed was partly caused by elements within this party who made Brazil impossible to govern. Its leaders – who are now manoeuvring to seize the presidency and “save” the nation – are all culpable for the problems of the economy and implicated in corruption scandals.The most likely successor is Vice-President Michel Temer, a PMDB veteran, who has been the target of at least two bribery investigations. Another possibility is Eduardo Cunha, the PMDB leader of the lower house, who is . Underlining the double standards in this ugly political battle, Cunha is now spearheading efforts to remove Rousseff from office for temporarily window-dressing government accounts ahead of the last election. Passing judgment will be a lower house impeachment commission on which . Identifying heroes and villains in this depressingly murky world is a fool’s game. Nothing is entirely straightforward. Though deeply enmeshed in scandal, the Workers party strengthened the independence and authority of the institutions that have exposed wrongdoing: judges, prosecutors and federal police. With considerable regional autonomy, these judicial actors –  – have taken on powerful politicians of all stripes. They, more than anyone, have shaken the government. For a public sick of corruption, they represented hopes that the old culture of impunity was finally over, that democratic institutions were growing stronger, that the division of powers was functioning and justice was being done. The judges – particularly Judge Sérgio Moro – have become the new darlings of the nation.Or so it seemed until this month, when the non-partisan position of the investigation was called into question. After Moro approved the detention of Lula and , the Workers party felt they were being victimised. For them, the political impeachment drive and the judicial  investigation – which were supposed to be two different things – were two fronts in a plot to unseat the government.The allegations of a conspiracy of judges and opposition are unproven. But the twin challenges to the adminstration have certainly converged in the public mind and in their combined political impact.  has brought anti-government protesters on to the streets, while the impeachment process has come to serve as a political confidence vote. It may be ethically and legally dubious, but it has left Rousseff teetering.If she falls, she will probably be replaced by a PMDB-based administration that will improve Brazil’s economy but make its democracy look more fragile. Of the four presidents the country has had since the end of the dictatorship era, two will have been removed from office before then end of their elected mandates.And the role of the judges – who have played such an influential role over the past year – will come under scrutiny. The test will be whether they continue their corruption investigations with as much alacrity into the new administration as they did into the old.</content>
<class_name>Brazil,Americas,Dilma Rousseff,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T19:32:33+0100</date>
<title>Brazil's judiciary faces scrutiny as Rousseff's government teeters</title>
<content>There has been a significant backlash recently in London about the loss of public space, as ,  and  become victims of . Last month, campaigners took part in a “” outside City Hall – a site where even photography may be restricted by private security – to protest against the chunks of the capital falling into private hands.But what is happening in the rest of the continent? Are other urban European spaces becoming more exclusive? Last spring in Belgrade, protestors took to the streets to campaign against the , which will include thousands of homes, a business hub and the Balkan’s largest shopping mall – but residents are concerned that the government-backed project will be a Dubai-style makeover.In Paris, on the other hand,  has been developing a “bottom-up strategy of resilient regeneration” since 2012, which includes the citizen management of 5,000 sq metres of land, including food production and community activities. In April, a special meeting will be held  ahead of the the United Nations’ conference on housing and sustainable urban development later this year, . At a time when concerns for public safety mix with a desire to see fewer controlled and regulated urban places, how is the nature of public space in European cities changing? What’s improving and what’s getting worse?  (just click on the blue “contribute” button). We’ll round up some of your contributions on .</content>
<class_name>Europe,Regeneration,Gentrification,Communities,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T12:39:53+0000</date>
<title>How is public space changing in European cities?</title>
<content>For two young men from Brisbane who admit to not being very good at doing their washing, launching the world’s first free mobile laundry service for the homeless was perhaps a novel idea. But Nicholas Marchesi and Lucas Patchett, the 21-year-old co-founders of , say their initiative is not just about providing freshly cleaned clothes, something most of us take for granted. The service also aims to give rough sleepers the basic human right to hygiene, and restore their dignity and respect.“We had this crazy idea to chuck a couple of washers in the back of a van,’’ says Marchesi of the project, which kicked off in October 2014. “Our goal was to connect communities, raise health standards for the homeless and improve the lives of others.” The laundry-on-wheels now pulls up at parks and drop-in centres in six cities across Australia: Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Gold Coast and from this week Adelaide, too, as well as areas of southeast Victoria. The idea was “very simple and in some ways obvious”, says Marchesi. As students, he and Patchett helped out with their school’s charity food vans, where they were exposed to a growing social problem. There are at least 105,000 homeless people across Australia every night, according to . Sydney alone has seen a dramatic rise in the number of rough sleepers in the city centre, from 365 in February 2015 to a record 486 in February of this year, according to a local government street count. “Homelessness is a hidden issueacross Australia,” says Patchett, “but our eyes were open to it very early on.”Taking the name from British musician Alexi Murdoch’s Orange Sky, a song about helping those in need, the two men fitted out their first van, dubbed “Sudsy”, with a pair of industrial washers and dryers, a generator and water tanks.“A lot of people thought we were crazy, that it was impossible,” Marchesi says. “We were told that putting a washing machine in the back of a van would never work ... With all the moving parts, they’re not designed to be there! Then there was the issue of bringing water and power to different locations, and making the whole thing easy for volunteers to operate. We also heard things like, ‘Homeless people will never wash their clothes in a park’.”The pair were determined to overcome all obstacles, however. “We’re both pretty impatient guys,” Patchett says. “No one had done it yet, so we thought, let’s give it a red hot crack.” After barely 18 months, and with the backing of private and corporate donors and a state government grant, Marchesi and Patchett have grown Orange Sky Laundry to a six-van operation, staffed by more than 450 volunteers. Each van costs around $100,000 (£53,000) to revamp and launch. “Sudsy” has been joined by “Tubsy”, “Bubbles”, “Jelly” and co in servicing 46 different locations throughout Australia. The bright orange vans roam the streets of the Orange Sky Laundry locations six days a week.“We’re on site for three to six hours, so we’ll do up to 16 or 17 loads of washing during that time,” Patchett says – that’s several hundred loads across the country each week. Rolling out with other local homelessness service providers, such as food vans, has helped. The reception has been “fantastic”, they say. People have not only been generous with their time, but have also dug deep into their pockets. For the homeless people who use the service, it’s a welcome alternative to expensive laundromats or queue-ridden hostels, where clothes can go missing. But it’s also a conversation starter, Marchesi says. He recalls a moment from Orange Sky’s early days. “We were in Logan (an outer suburb of Brisbane), trialling the service for the first time. I met Grant, who was in his early thirties. He had to beg for clothes from op shops [charity shops] or sometimes washed his clothes in the river. After handing back his clean laundry, he told me that he hadn’t spoken to another human being in three days. That’s when I was reminded of the power of conversation ... I’ll never forget it.”With mental health and loneliness two of the key issues in homelessness (alongside domestic violence, lack of affordable housing and poverty), providing places where people can connect and exchange with one another is crucial. The number of homeless people with a current mental illness soared to 25% (63,000 people) in 2014-2015, up from 19% (44,800 people) three years earlier, according to a  by the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. The issue can be partly linked to isolation. “There’s a mood of negativity and hostility towards the homeless community,” Patchett says. “We try to provide a more social, uplifting experience, and I think having fresh faces for our homeless friends to talk to helps.”Although services like Orange Sky Laundry address the immediate needs of homeless people, there is widespread acknowledgement of a lack of long-term, strategic solutions to prevent people from falling into the homelessness cycle. Patchett and Marchesi say theirs is by no means the complete answer to the problem. They are keen to provide the homeless with training and employment opportunities: “Right now it’s a small part of our operation,” says Patchett, “but we want to scale up. That’s the next step.”In the meantime, the two social entrepreneurs are looking ahead: they hope to reach 1,000 volunteers and have another four vans by the end of the year. The service recently expanded to Adelaide and will arrive in Canberra in April – but they also have ambitious plans to go global. No doubt being named  last January (they’re the first ever joint winners) will give them a boost in their bid to keep the conversation about homelessness alive.Patchett describes meeting a homeless person named Jordan through Orange Sky. “He went to school up the road from me. I found out that we did the same uni degree – he was only a few years ahead of me. A fully qualified engineer. But a few tough life turns, and a lack of a family network, and he was on the streets. We’ve learned that everybody’s story is unique.”“We want to challenge the perceptions people have of our homeless friends,” Marchesi says. “We don’t want to make a distinction, we’re all just people.”</content>
<class_name>Homelessness,Social exclusion,Housing,Communities,Entrepreneurs,Charities,Voluntary sector,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T12:16:38+0100</date>
<title>Clean streets: the mobile laundry service helping Australia's homeless</title>
<content> Lucy Lamble Juliana Lunguzi  Beatrice MwangiAnnie Namakhwa Immaculate Bottoman Noel Chalamanda Edward Chimaimba Thabani Maphosa Fordson Kafweku  Rose Norman Mary Gangisa Virginia Kachigunda  Bernard Hadzirabwi Southern Malawi and Zimbabwe are both experiencing what some are calling the worst drought in 35 years.  I’ve received two messages in two families, in two villages, where kids were left at home, where the mother went to look for food, they ended up eating some plants and they died. They died because they ate something, they ate that something because there was no food. I’m just reporting as it is, to the extent of the hunger. It’s a disaster. That’s the voice of Juliana Lunguzi from the MCP, the Malawi Congress opposition party and member of parliament for Dedza East speaking about the food shortages in the country. Usually, South Africa produces enough grain to export so that when other countries are lacking, they can depend on surpluses from there. This year however even South Africa has had to import maize, and the effect on surrounding countries has been palpable.  My name is Beatrice Mwangi. I am the egional resilience and livelihoods director for the South African region. For some countries this is successive seasons of crop failure which means that communities have much less and more vulnerable communities being made even more vulnerable, so the need is dire. Given that local climate impacts of El Niño, the seasonal weather phenomenon, are relatively predictable, why are we here again with communities who are really struggling due to failed harvests? My name is Lucy Lamble and for this month’s podcast I start my journey near the river Shire in southern Malawi.  Here I am now in Neno district talking to 36-year-old Annie Namakhwa. She’s a mother of four and her home is in an area which was particularly badly flooded last year. Now, due to the late rains, the community is surrounded by wilting crops all around her homestead.  I was born in this community and I’ve grown up right here. We used to have very good harvests, the rainfall pattern has been getting different over the years, and our output has been far much worse. You know, this has a very big bearing on our children because when there is no food raising then becomes very hard and providing for them is also far much difficult.  In the past I would even harvest groundnuts, I would also even do some soy, now what it meant was that in the morning my kids would have porridge and then off they went to school happy on a full stomach. Farming this year has been very hard, it’s been very difficult. We planted the first, the first maize but it all wilted off and we had to replant and what you see in the garden right now is our second planting, but then there is nothing as we can see.  I go into other people’s gardens but most of the times I have to go into the forest and find firewood which I sell to people and it is through this that I am finding food for my children.  Immaculate Bottoman, the senior area programme manager in Neno district for World Vision, explains how the area has been affected. We’ve had prolonged dry spells that have affected the crops in the field, currently, according to information from government, about 7,000 hectares of land have been affected, the crops have wilted, others is stiffening. It means that the community are going to harvest very little food this year. We are anticipating almost a 10% reduction of food production in this area. Throughout the region droughts are now happening with increasing regularity. Beatrice Mwangi is resilience and livelihoods director for the Southern Africa region, World Vision. It was one big drought every 10 years, then it came to one drought every five years, and now the trends are showing that it will be one every three to five years. So we are in a crisis all right, that is true, but it’s going to be the new norm. So our responses need to, to highlight that, our responses need to appreciate there is climate change and it’s going to affect the people that we work with, the communities we serve. So our responses also need to focus on the short term, the medium term, but the long term as well. So how has this situation come about? Opposition MP Juliana Lunguzi from the MCP. If you ask, you see it in government documents and everything, they will tell you, oh we are facing this because we have El Niño, because climate change and everything. In every statement that we had we knew that we were going to have an El Niño in Malawi. I’m thinking, OK what you are telling me, it’s exactly what you told me last year. You’re supposed to prepare, but when you look on what we have done as a country you will see that mainly we are facing these problems because of our lack, I would say, of proper investment in the agriculture sector and also accountability, especially in the transition of the various loans that we have taken, and because of laxity within the system.  In fact there is maize for sale in the markets but it’s not affordable for all. The Agriculture, Development and Marketing Corporation or Admarc is a government subsided organisation. Partially commercialised, it aims to generate profit as well as provide food for the most vulnerable, a difficult balance to achieve. In urban areas such as Blantyre, Malawi’s second city, a month’s supply of maize may cost the entire household budget. Others who aren’t formally employed may only be able to buy small quantities at a time and then have to hold out until Admarc has supplies available again. Noel Chalamanda, is the mayor of Blantyre. We work with the local leadership in the local areas to identify people that need the help most. The chances of people in the city not from dying from hunger much better than in the rural areas because the options are much more than in the rural areas, but the question again at the end of the day is, can they afford it? Admarc has not had constant supplies, communities in rural Neno describe long queues of women standing in line for two days before being sent away with no maize. Meanwhile farmers are struggling to irrigate their crops. A few lucky ones have land near rivers or the lake but many cannot access water. World Vision has established a system of lead farmers for key communities in the district. I’m Edward Chimaimba, I’m the lead farmer with this Kholombidzo section. I am someone who is well conversant with the new farming technologies, I know how to apply fertiliser, I know when to prepare my garden in time for rains, and most of the times my family is food secure.  For the past couple of years World Vision has been supporting me as a lead farmer and my farmers with farm inputs, seeds and sometimes fertilisers. At a time like this we go across to the river where we do irrigation but then, now, it’s not even the village who has space close to the river that they can be producing maize, what we are now thinking of is how best we can transfer that water right into the village where everyone can have access to that, because now with the inputs that were sorted by World Vision they can’t be accessed by everyone, because they can’t afford giving everyone, but then this year we are saying almost everyone will be hungry. So we are faced by this situation where we are thinking of where to find resources for those other farmers. In some districts advisers are trying to support farmers to make the shift to growing small grains which are more drought tolerant and move away from maize, however culture and tradition can be barriers to this. Thabani Maphosa is partnership leader for Food Assistance within World Vision. It would help if they adopted small grains that are drought tolerant and some of those are crops that would work better for the environment but we are not seeing that adoption happening as fast as we would like to see it where culturally the white maize is what has traditionally been a staple crop, and when you are changing things that are that ingrained to a society it does take time.  In some communities sorghum was always associated with being a crop for the poor, and so many people are struggling with accepting that they may be poor, but that is not the case, it shouldn’t be about whether they are, whether they should be accepting whether they are poor or not but they should be accepting what is viable within their context and within their communities and that’s a work that will take a while. And of course the involvement of farmers in the communities themselves is key to finding solutions. Fordson Kafweku is the deputy national director, World Vision, Malawi.Everywhere where we have a river we should be able to do irrigation. I was very pleasantly surprised when I went to one the programmes just near here, near Lilongwe, I found one farmer who was using what he was calling wasted water from a borehole, and this water when the women are pumping and getting the water, the children, some of that run-off, what he has done is he has dug a pit and that water goes in there and he pumps it in a tree and he uses gravity, and one by one he’s actually irrigating his crops. It was amazing, I think that man has got something like half a hectare of maize being produced with that kind of water. So that’s what we’re trying to let people know, that it’s not about wanting to have so much water but how we are going to use it, because that’s a simple principle of drip irrigation. Meanwhile vulnerable households continue to face critical shortages. Juliana Lunguzi again.  Because what is happening now, I went through the village, it was a school day, you will find girls who are just sitting without going to school. So you are asking why are you not going to school? We are too hungry. Parents are taking these kids to go and queue at the Admarc depot while they are trying to do other things. I’m here now with Rose Norman, a 60-year-old widow, who clearly takes great pride in how she maintains her compound. She’s the only breadwinner in a household of five children. Because I’m the only breadwinner in this house when I wake up in the morning, since I don’t have enough food to eat, I rush and do piece work, with the little money that I get, I send the children to go and buy flour on the market, and then we can make some food for the children. The local bread, that’s what we make and share with the children to eat. When there is no food at home, women are not free, they are not happy because they are always thinking about their family, just as I am thinking about my children. As the situation deteriorates many families are simply focusing on finding food to feed themselves and their children each day, but when other basic needs are pushed off the priority list this can have a knock on effect. Immaculate Bottoman again. Instead of the community focussing on the development interventions that we do with them, they now focus on finding food for the next day. And usually education is also affected in that children, instead of going to school, they are left at home to go and look for food and support their families as well. Nearby I come across Mary Gangisa. She’s 17 and expecting her first child and has had to drop out of school. She’s not yet had any antenatal advice and is clearly still coming to terms with her situation.  I destroyed my future because I stopped going to school. Right now we just managed to buy maybe one packet of maize, and we just eat for a few days and then the food is finished. So I lacked in notebooks and other things which are needed for my school. Virginia Kachigunda is deputy director for School Health and Nutrition, the part of the education ministry that deals with emergencies. It, it’s true, girls are the most affected when it comes to emergencies. Not only emergencies, even culturally in Malawi we, we are deliberately focusing on girl child education because the girls are at a disadvantage. And when problems like a drought occur it is the girl child which is pulled out from school, not willingly, but the demands to care are placed on the shoulders of the girl child, she has to go out and look for food and some of these girls are engaged in transactional sex.  When girls drop out from school maybe they are pregnant because of the circumstances that they’re in. The government is receiving them back after delivery, so this is a deliberate action that government has, has done to make sure that we can bring back the girls who missed their way and they can do well. I am one of such kind of girls, I had my baby when I was in form one and I went back to school, now I am a deputy director here. Juliana Lunguzi also agrees that for girls getting an education is crucial. Without education, that’s it for you, so you are just recycling the poverty at household level. We are recycling our poverty because if somebody drops out of school, what do you do with a 10-year-old at home? Eventually they will get married so these are the early marriages that we don’t want, and you are looking at all the maternal complications that you have big fistula or even obstructive labour to these girls and these have long term socio, I mean psychological effects.  The southern part of Malawi is badly, badly hit and Swaziland, as I mentioned, Lesotho, the number of heads of cows, cattle that is dead in those countries is a bit high, Zimbabwe as well, 22,000 cows lost at this point, and the number is growing.  That’s Beatrice Mwangi again, she works on resilience and livelihoods for the Southern Africa region.  I’ve now reached Masvingo province, a particularly dry area in the south of Zimbabwe where the effect of the drought extends well beyond dying livestock and the failed harvest. Even communities that normally irrigate here describe how they’re faced with silted up dams.  Bernard Hadzirabwi is the district administrator for Chivi district. He explains the impact of the drought on the community he serves. The other problem the district is facing is a shortage of potable water. We have very little of surface water so basically people for domestic use and their livestock rely on borehole water but are now faced with the situation whereby they have to buy food, it’s now really very difficult for them to buy food plus livestock feed. So livestock is one of the basic means of surviving for the people here, and now the livestock is dying. And children are particularly badly affected. So for the average child being served one meal a day to come to school and to learn properly, it’s very difficult. Also the issue, those who are living close to some big townships you’ll find some young girls involved in paid practices like prostitution which will otherwise lead you to sexually transmitted diseases impacting negatively again on their future and their lives. As in Malawi it’s not just about the availability of grain but prices that are beyond the reach of many. Thabani Maphosa again. In Zimbabwe I understand that the prices are between $15 to $22 for a 50-kg bag of maize. For a family of five it could probably be for a month. Food inflation has been creeping up, we have seen price increases up to 30% above normal in the recent past.  According to Fordson Kafweku government’s only just starting to catch up with the scale of the problem in the region. Most of the countries are actually realising that the climate change is real and so it doesn’t take that easy to just change, yeah so there’s a lot that needs to be changed, there are policies that need to be enacted, there are lot of investments that needs to be taking place and I think the governments in Southern Africa are really responding.  So what is being done to help? This month, SADC, The Southern African Development Community, declared a regional disaster and now governments are coordinating food imports. Chichewa in Malawi is a particularly beautiful region but also one that’s been badly affected by flooding. At a food distribution I meet people coming to collect their allocation of maize, cooking oil and lentils. The lentils from the US take a bit of explaining though, as they’re not normal fare here. The food is badly needed and much appreciated, everybody mucks in to help unload the lorry when it gets stuck a few hundred metres from the distribution point in the silted up soil.  The World Food Programme has already extended its support for a further month due to ongoing need. They’re saying Malawi needs a further $38m to help those affected. One key challenge is to keep longer term development going while also responding to the current emergency. Thabani Maphosa again. World Vision has been pushing for farmer-managed natural regeneration, we have seen that it works, it is paying great dividends in countries like Niger in west Africa, but you have got to give it time and when donors and communities don’t have time, and what they want is a quick fix it can be difficult, so some of the solutions that would help us to really deal decisively with this issue are not quick fixes, you have got to have some staying power. And I think we do have a challenge of staying power, both from the communities’ perspective sometimes and from the donors as well. In response to the scale of this year’s emergency some donors, like the UK, are trying new approaches alongside traditional food distributions. In Zimbabwe they are funding a pilot programme for example that transfers cash via mobile phones so that people can buy food in local markets. We give people cash and they buy food and at the moment what we’ve been watching and we’re trying to monitor is as this drought deepens and goes further on how are the markets going to respond, because for us that’s the tricky piece, at which point do we need to be working with food in kind because the inflation is overtaking us, or at which point do we still need to still stick with the cash? While communities are facing up to the need to adapt away from their current overdependence on rain-fed farming, in the short term the daily struggle faced by millions of families to find food just to survive that day continues. In the past if things were bad for you you would know you could turn to your neighbour and they would give you a hand, but now even that neighbour is also hungry and now we are all facing the same challenge. We will continue hearing these stories of people dying, people getting sick, and if you go to the hospital you’re looking at increased malnourished children.  That’s the situation, that as you can see that there is no maize in the fields so we are not expecting to get anything. So we have the situation now I won’t be having food for myself to feed the baby. That’s all for this month’s global development podcast. You can hear all of our podcasts on , or on iTunes, Soundcloud and all podcasting apps. Thank you for listening. My name is Lucy Lamble and the producer is Kary Stewart. We return as usual next month.</content>
<class_name>Drought,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T15:26:07+0100</date>
<title>El Niño worsens food shortages in Malawi and Zimbabwe – podcast transcript</title>
<content>He was the Parisian who ripped up his home city; one of the most famous and controversial urban planners in history. Even now, 125 years after the death of Baron Georges-Eugène Haussmann,  remains divided over whether the man who transformed Paris into the City of Light was truly a master planner – or an imperialist megalomaniac.Internationally, Haussmann is celebrated for much that is loved about the French capital; notably those wide avenues flanked with imposing buildings of neatly dressed  and intricate wrought iron balconies.To his republican compatriots, however, Haussmann was an arrogant, autocratic vandal who ripped the historic heart out of , driving his boulevards through the city’s slums to help the French army crush popular uprisings.Historian and Haussmann expert  is exasperated by the century’s worth of criticism that has been levelled at this hugely influential figure. “Sometimes I don’t know where to start; it’s bullshit from beginning to end,” De Moncan says. “But it’s a view many people still hold in France.“Haussmann has been portrayed as this almost sinister figure, only out to enrich himself and with his fingers in the till. His critics accused him of filling Paris with cobbled streets, bland buildings with stone facades, and wide, dead straight avenues so the army could repress the masses.”De Moncan, who is writing a new biography of Haussmann, smarts with the injustice of what he sees as the ongoing maligning of his hero. “Some said he was austere, but from what I have discovered he liked a good party and threw great ones. Others accused him of chasing the girls – it’s true he had a mistress [the opera star Francine Cellier] with whom he had a child, but unlike others at that time, he accepted, recognised and educated the girl.”In 1848, Haussmann was an ambitious civil servant determinedly climbing the ranks when Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte – nephew and heir of  – returned to Paris after 12 years’ exile in London to become president of the French Second Republic.Bonaparte, later elected Emperor Napoléon III, hated what he saw. In his absence, the population of Paris had exploded from 759,000 in 1831 to more than a million in 1846 – despite regular outbreaks of cholera and typhoid that killed tens of thousands.The French capital was overcrowded, dingy, dirty and riddled with disease. Why, Bonaparte pondered, was it not more like London, with its grand parks and gardens, its tree-lined avenues and ? Paris, he declared, needed light, air, clean water and good sanitation.Haussmann was an imposing figure both physically – at 6ft 3in – and intellectually. Born into a bourgeois military family with strong Lutheran ties, he had been a brilliant student at elite Paris colleges, and personified the . Portraits show a tall, solid, often studious figure with a not unkind face, often sporting a chin-strap beard and, in later years, thinning hair.France’s interior minister, Victor de Persigny, believed Haussmann to be the ideal candidate for the job of Prefect of the Seine and overseer of Napoléon III’s plan to transform the city. “He is one of the most extraordinary men of our time; big, strong, vigorous, energetic and at the same time clever and devious,” wrote De Persigny to the emperor. “He told me all of his accomplishments during his administrative career, leaving out nothing: he could have talked for six hours without a break, since it was his favourite subject, himself.”Haussmann got the job. A week after his appointment in the summer of 1853, he was summoned to the emperor’s official residence at the Palais des Tuileries, where Napoléon III produced his plan for Paris. It showed a map of the city with three straight, dark lines drawn over it: one running north-to-south and two east-to-west either side of the Seine, all cutting through some of the most densely populated but historic areas of central Paris. “This is what I want,” Napoléon III told Haussmann. It was the start of the  ever voluntarily carried out in a European city, turning Paris into a vast building site for more than 17 years.Haussmann cut a swathe through the cramped and chaotic labyrinth of slum streets in the city centre, knocked down 12,000 buildings, cleared space for the Palais Garnier, home of the Opéra National de Paris, and Les Halles marketplace, and linked the new train terminals with his long, wide and straight avenues.Less well known is Haussmann’s commissioning of an outstanding collection of street furniture – lampposts, newspaper kiosks, railings – and the decorative bandstands in the 27 parks and squares he created.Below ground, Haussmann oversaw the installation of , the city’s complex sewage network. He also commissioned reservoirs and aquaducts to bring clean drinking water to the city.On his orders, gas lamps were installed along the widened cobbled streets; now when the elegant who strolled the 137km of new boulevards retired for the night, the revellers and  who emerged from the bars and the shadows could walk safely. The new streets came with trees and broad pavements along which café terraces sprang up, soon to be filled with artists and artisans enjoying “absinthe hour”.In his Dictionary of the Second Empire, Josephy Valynseele wrote of Haussmann: “During his career he showed a maniacal ambition, an impudent opportunism and was, whatever he did, a genius of showmanship.”But republican opponents criticised the brutality of the work. They saw his avenues as imperialist tools to neuter fermenting civil unrest in working-class areas, allowing troops to be rapidly deployed to quell revolt. Haussmann was also accused of social engineering by destroying the economically mixed areas where rich and poor rubbed shoulders, instead creating distinct wealthy and “popular” .Critics also accused him of destroying the city’s medieval treasures, citing the enduring charm of the narrow winding streets of the Marais: the city’s oldest district and one which escaped Haussmann’s razing.There was additional outrage at the staggering 2.5bn franc bill for the work – around €75bn today. By 1869 the attacks had become deafening, and Haussmann was forced to vigorously defend himself before MPs and city officials. In the hope of salvaging his own flagging popularity, Napoléon III asked Hassmann to resign. He refused.“Haussmann had a great belief in public service and had spent his whole career in the service of the king and then the emperor,” De Moncan says. “He believed if he resigned it would be assumed he had done wrong, when in fact he was very proud of what he had done. Napoléon III offered him all manner of inducements but he still refused, so the emperor sacked him. “The Second Empire and Napoléon III were despised by republicans, and Haussmann was the victim of this political backlash.  hated him, and because everyone in France regarded what Hugo wrote as the word of God, they hated Haussmann too. Hugo, the man who wrote  about how desperate conditions were in Paris, accused Haussmann of destroying the city’s medieval charm!”De Moncan observes this was the same “charm” that had brought epidemics to Paris; the charm that “had 20 people living in one room with no light and no toilets, just a common courtyard into which they did their business. People like Hugo forgot how truly miserable Paris had been for ordinary Parisians.”Out of a job and  in Paris, Haussmann spent six months in Italy to lift his spirits. He returned and was given a management post with the military – which lasted less than a week before Napoléon III was defeated.Haussmann lived out his final days in rented accommodation on a paltry 6,000-franc pension, the equivalent of €20,000 a year today, paying regular visits to his three beloved daughters. In his memoirs, he seems stoic rather than bitter about his fall from grace:Some of Haussmann’s harshest critics, including the politician and philosopher , later changed their view of him: “He tried to make Paris a magnificent city and he succeeded completely,” Simon wrote in 1882. “He introduced into his beautiful capital trees and flowers, and populated it with statues.”Today, Haussmann is remembered by the grand boulevard that bears his name, on which the Palais Garnier sits, and  on its corner with Rue de Laborde in the 8th Arrondissement. But according to De Moncan, Haussmann’s vital contribution to modern Paris is still not fully appreciated.“Haussmann was never forgiven or recognised in his lifetime in France, and still isn’t. If I give a conference here, people groan when I talk about him. Right up until the 1980s, his buildings were dismissed as rubbish and as many as possible were destroyed, so that all those unlovely 1970s glass and concrete structures could go up. “But what he did was phenomenal; he was the world’s first modern urban developer. Everyone who came to Paris for the universal exhibitions, including Queen Victoria, was astonished by the transformation of the city. In 1867, there was a meeting of European architects in Germany at which Haussmann was hailed as a pure genius; a brilliant modern urban developer. Yet all that was said about him back home was that he was a crook.”</content>
<class_name>Paris,France,Europe,History,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:30:07+0100</date>
<title>Story of cities #12: Haussmann rips up Paris – and divides France to this day</title>
<content>Downtown Kingston, the conflicted heart of Jamaica’s modern capital, was born of disaster. A battered pocket watch, its hands frozen at exactly 11:43, memorialises the moment on 7 June 1692 when an earthquake ripped through this English Caribbean colony. Mountains split, buildings shattered and a tsunami swept away uncountable bodies, living and dead, as the earth’s convulsions exhumed corpses from their graves.The pocket watch was discovered in 1959 at the bottom of the harbour, where two thirds of the bustling commercial centre of  was sunk by the earthquake and still lies , like a submarine Pompeii.A sketch drawn by the seafarer  in the 1680s gives an impression of this town before its destruction: a dense, fortified hub rising from the end of a 10-mile sandy spit. With tall houses built of brick shipped from England as ballast, Port Royal had been proclaimed the “London of Jamaica”.Seized from Spanish colonists by English soldiers under Oliver Cromwell in 1655,  was considered ideally located for trade and conquest. “No island in the world lies like it for advantage,” argued the 17th-century economist Carew Reynell, for whom it was “the seat of riches and empire”. Within a couple of decades, Port Royal had become the region’s “storehouse or treasury”, according to the resident lawyer Francis Hanson, “always like a continual mart or fair”.A pivotal site in the escalating businesses of slavery and sugar, Port Royal was also a hotbed of pirates. Even after piracy was officially outlawed, Jamaica’s authorities were accused by local residents of “winking” at the buccaneers, “in consideration of the treasures they brought and squandered away there”. It earned Port Royal the epithet of “the richest and wickedest city in the world”.It could also claim, as it turned out, to be the weakest. The physician , who came to visit Jamaica in 1687, reported that much of the land on which all this wealth and fame had been built – a mere 53 acres – was merely loose sand “kept up by palisadoes and wharfs”. The combination of heavily built-up urban fabric and insubstantial foundations was a disaster waiting to happen in this earthquake danger zone.And on that fateful summer morning in 1692, the sand slipped away and the bricks came crashing down. One survivor, the Rev Emmanuel Heath, recorded how he had finished prayers – “to keep up some show of religion among a most ungodly, debauched people” – and was in the local tavern. As the floor began to roll beneath his feet, he ran outside to see “the earth open and swallow up a multitude of people, and the sea mounting in upon us”.The eyewitness reports still make shocking reading today. The town’s inhabitants were crushed in the earth’s clutches or by collapsing walls. Ships cast adrift rode over the rooftops of sunken houses, which became “habitations for fish”. So much sand was washed away that Port Royal in effect became a tiny desert island. The destruction was widespread across Jamaica, yet Port Royal “had much the greatest share in this terrible judgment”, according to Heath, who naturally interpreted the event as punishment from God. Roughly 2,000 people were killed, with thousands more succumbing to disease soon after.In a few seismic seconds, as the watch fell from a pocket and stopped, the fortunes of Port Royal changed for ever. Ideas for a deliberately different kind of town took hold: a gridiron plan designed to suit the white, colonial, slave-trading and slave-holding elite – and to underscore its control of people and space. This would be the king’s town, Kingston.“Refugees from the earthquake fled to the mainland and began occupying the broad, flat plain on that side of the harbour,” writes Louis Nelson in his book . “Relocating the city allowed Jamaican merchants to reimagine their urban fabric.” The surveyor John Goffe drew up a plan of broad, straight streets providing easy access to wharfs along the waterfront, and plots were for sale by 1693.Securely stored between the lines of this fledgling Kingston grid were the principal imports and exports – slaves and sugar – on which the rise of both the British empire and the 18th century’s quickly globalising economy would depend; its network of streets inextricable from the wider network of shipping lanes that stretched and intersected around the world., a leading expert on Kingston’s urban development and social change, points out that both streets and plots were designed to meet commercial requirements. The main thoroughfares, wider than the rest at 66ft, formed free-flowing transport routes between the port and plantations in the hinterland, while plots were oriented to maximise the number of frontages available in prime commercial areas.Not everyone, though, was convinced about building anew on the “firm land of the island”, as Sloane described the site where Kingston emerged. In the years following the earthquake, Port Royal was also rebuilt along the same lines as before, albeit to half its previous size, and in the late 1690s its crammed and crooked streets remained a more desirable place to live than the town taking shape across the water. Port Royal’s association with , and that city’s recent resurrection after the Great Fire of 1666, help to explain its people’s attachment to the site, as well as their urge to rebuild.But Port Royal was to suffer its own great fire just 10 years after the earthquake. “Port Royal burnt, all but the Castle,” a boat master recorded in his log in January 1703. An act was swiftly drawn up to prohibit the resettling of Port Royal and to move all its inhabitants to Kingston, sparking a heated transatlantic debate between Jamaica and England over the relative advantages of each site. Placating the colonists, London eventually resolved that both towns should be allowed to continue, with Port Royal serving as the outermost defence for Kingston and the wider island.If Port Royal had meaning by association with the restored ancient City of London, the design of colonial Kingston has more in common with  that envisioned an entirely new city. “The grid plan markedly differentiated the city from its predecessor,” Nelson notes of Jamaica’s new port. In charts of the harbour drawn amid the debate over whether to rebuild or abandon Port Royal, the fluid, uncertain form of the latter contrasts sharply with Kingston’s rigid, rectilinear grid.The development of that grid was overseen by the military engineer Christian Lilly. With four main thoroughfares leading into the centrepiece Parade – which combined military, civic and commercial functions – the gridiron layout relates to other English colonial urban plans such as Londonderry in Northern Ireland (where Colonel Lilly had previously served in campaigns to crush Irish resistance) and .However, Kingston was also intended as an improvement on the irregular grid street plan of St Jago de la Vega – the Spanish colony’s principal town in Jamaica, which the English had appropriated as their own capital in 1655 – and as a rival to the French and Spanish Caribbean cities that Lilly knew from his involvement in military attacks and spying missions.A Frenchman held prisoner in Jamaica in 1706, during war between England and France, took the opportunity for some military espionage of his own. In addition to Kingston’s uniformity, he noted that the town had no fortification, only a long entrenchment to the north of the Parade which, with the houses on the other three sides of the square, “formed a kind of strongpoint”.It took at least another century for this strongpoint to become Kingston’s physical centre, yet the Frenchman’s observation hints at the broadly defensive character of the city’s plan. The wide streets and large plots served not only to prevent the spread of fire and reduce the destructive chaos of earthquakes or hurricanes – which occurred with disturbing frequency – but also to order and control the inhabitants and their activities. Noting that Jamaican port towns were “rarely the sites of slave rebellion”, the historian  describes them as “Janus-faced barriers as well as portals to profits and progress”.Michael Hay’s  c1740 was clearly intended to promote the port’s profitability, with busy wharves and views of prosperous-looking houses. But the invisible background to Hay’s image is the conflict that had been raging for more than a decade between colonists and the island’s “maroon” communities. These groups of African Jamaicans – the descendants of slaves who had been freed by Spanish colonists as they tried to keep hold of the island in 1655, joined by growing numbers of runaways from the English plantations – resisted the occupation from multiple mountain bases.Hay dedicated his print to Jamaica’s governor Edward Trelawny, who signed a treaty with the maroons in 1739 after a decade of intensified guerrilla warfare in which plantations were burned and settlements attacked. The gathering strength of the resistance gave Jamaica’s enslaved population ideas of rebellion and freedom, while the white planter class feared the island would be “lost to the nation”.This is the wider scene of disorder behind the visual and spatial ordering of Kingston’s grid plan. The imposition of the grid may be seen as a response to the reality – articulated by the Jamaican poet  in his 2014  – that “whole places will slip / out from your grip”. In Jamaica, Miller writes, history and its landmarks ...Strikingly, the footprint of old, colonial Kingston survived intact through full emancipation in 1838 and independence in 1962, and remains ingrained in Kingstonian minds – so ingrained, Clarke suggests, that decolonisation of the grid has been impossible. The colonial past lives on in the names of streets and spaces: the Parade is still commonly known by that name, for example, despite being renamed Victoria Park in the 19th century, and then St William Grant Park after the 20th-century Jamaican labour activist.But for Anne-Marie Bonner, executive director of the  (based in downtown Kingston), the grid offers more opportunities than obstacles in reviving the city and its culture. Not only does it contribute to much-needed “orderliness” in modern times, it contains history worth preserving – the former British army ground having resounded to the political speeches of  such as Marcus Garvey, Alexander Bustamante and Norman Manley. With efforts under way to have the city recognised as a historic district, the grid may yet gain a new lease of life.“I guess the grid pattern of the city is hardwired into me,” says the Kingston-born writer , who has weaved the “bandana plaid”, as she describes the city’s pattern, into her .  “Retracing the streets of Kingston in my mind always makes me feel more connected, more grounded,” Goodison explains. “However, it is the old Kingston I retrace; the one I grew up in in the 1950s and early 60s, when it was a vibrant, bustling place that was mostly safe for a child to walk around. Now my hope is that a new Kingston, which will manage to maintain some of the better things about the old Kingston, is somehow rising from the grid.”</content>
<class_name>Jamaica,Americas,London,History,Architecture,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T07:30:13+0000</date>
<title>Story of cities #9: Kingston, Jamaica – a city born of 'wickedness' and disaster</title>
<content>oel Quispe sells his art for pennies on the dollar. Each masterpiece is roughly three feet long and two feet wide. Every print requires various types of ink and is meticulously designed and beautifully drawn. It is estimated that he has sold millions of dollars worth of his creations over the past five years – all while locked in a Peruvian prison while his family on the outside runs the show.Quispe is a perfectionist who uses bonded paper, watermarks and gloriously intricate typography. He has proven a master at mass marketing, producing thousands of copies. He is also a criminal mastermind who distributes sheet after sheet of his specialty: fake US $100 bills.Quispe is a master counterfeiter.According to police investigators, Quispe is the de facto leader of one of the four (perhaps more) sophisticated counterfeiting operations operating out of Lima, , which the US secret service has declared the world’s leading producer of counterfeit dollars.“Since 2009, in our investigations with the secret service, we have seized about $75m in fake bills,” said Walter Escalante, head of the Peruvian national police’s anti-fraud division. “We don’t know what percentage entered the US illegally and has gone inside the financial system. We think that our $75m is the better part of what has entered the US.”Criminals suggested that Escalante was unreasonably optimistic and the actual production of counterfeit dollars was far higher. In a clandestine meeting with the Guardian in a seedy hotel room in Lima, a veteran counterfeiter with over 20 years in the business detailed how his gang alone was producing an average of $3m to $5m in fake $100 bills every week. “To make these bills, you need 10 to 12 people,” said Geraldo Chavez (not his real name), the counterfeiter. “One runs the machine, there is a designer, you have someone in charge of the supplies – the paper, the inks – you need someone to cut the bills, someone outside watching. The packer. At a minimum eight people, but usually eight to 12 people for the production to come out right.” Asked how long it takes to fill an order for $5m, Chavez replied: “About a week. You make the design, then organize the paper and then start printing – pa! pa! pa!” He circled his hands in rotation, as he simulated the factory with six offset printing machines simultaneously pumping out money. “You have to work late in the night; the machines really make a lot of noise. That’s why they are up in the hills, in prefabricated houses, away from people.” Chavez said the typical customer bought between $10,000 and$15,000, for which the buyer paid 20% of face value if they were a repeat customer or 25% if they were a newbie. “Once, we printed an order for $5m in fake bills for some Mexicans,” said Chavez.Chavez pulled out a stack of freshly minted $100 bills. “These come from the north of Lima, where the factory is. Then they are brought to the center of Lima to enter the black market,” he added as he rubbed the bill with admiration. “They have a texture that is as close as you can get to a real bill. The finishing touches are of the highest quality. These are made to be sent abroad.”  Chavez went on to demonstrate the “finishing touches” by which a counterfeit bill is able to pass smoothly into circulation. The final steps were meant to improve the raised lettering, he said as he opened a small plastic bag of what looked like cocaine, but was in fact a type of flour. He mixed the flour with glue and water and stirred the mixture as if he were preparing instant coffee, careful to get an even consistency. He then used his finger to lightly paint certain parts of the bill with the glue mixture. The bills were then left to dry and will ultimately carry a rippled effect on key spots, similar to the texture of a real bill. “The printer has to be skilled,” said Don Brewer, who spent 26 years with the US secret service and became head of the agency’s anti-counterfeiting division. “They need to be artistic and meticulous. Because offset begins by photographing the money, the negative is the key. But the negative fails to hold all the detail of the original, so it has to be touched up by hand. In many counterfeit plants we raided, we would find large negative blowups that were used to add detail.” In the US and much of Europe, the sale, distribution, and use of offset printers are watched closely by anti-counterfeiting units. In Peru, however, the offset industry is a free-for-all. Entire neighborhoods are famous for being places to buy fake passports, bogus driver’s licenses, invented university degrees, false job contracts, forged housing deeds and practically anything else under the sun.  In Peru, awareness of fake currency is so high that retail shops regularly provide cashiers with hole punchers. When a fake bill is received, the cashier quickly pops out a few holes before curtly returning the bill to an oft-surprised client. Warning signs at the entrance to many pharmacies in Lima are plastered with fake bills punched full of holes and a sign explaining that any counterfeit bill received will be perforated on the spot. The profits from this business are huge – roughly $600,000 a week for his gang alone, said Chavez. “The raw materials are very cheap. I will give you an example. A $100 bill that I sell for $20? My costs are between $3 and $5. So what’s my profit? $15. Here [in Peru], you get the supplies you need at a low cost. This glue? It costs me 50 cents. The flour, even less. All this?” he said, pointing to the material on the desk in front of him. “Not even a dollar. The paper you buy in bulk and that costs 40-50 sols [$10-$15 a stack].” Competition is fierce, too. “If you have the best quality, people come to you,” said Chavez. “If it is second-rate? Doesn’t have the raised lettering? If the paper’s not right? If it doesn’t have the texture? They aren’t going to buy it. Nothing’s going down.” “They try to make the minimum investment possible,” said Escalante, the Peruvian police commander. “It’s not in their best interest to use expensive materials. And you have to remember, these bills are going to the United States, and in the US the people have confidence in their bills. They don’t check as much.”Peruvian counterfeiters are so creative that even worthless currencies are brought back to life. Thanks to the world’s highest inflation rate, the Venezuelan 10 Bolivar note has seen its value plummet over the past five years from roughly $5 to two cents. For Peruvian counterfeiters the Bolivian currency is worth more than the money printed on it. They use the 10 Bolivar note as raw material to produce counterfeit bills.First, the Peruvian gangs bleach off the portraits of both Guaicaipuro (a revered indigenous leader) and the harpy eagle and then print Benjamin Franklin’s stiff grimace onto the face of a newly minted $100 bill. “When people check those bills, the paper is right, it has many of the properties of a real bill,” explains Reimundo Urcia Bernabe, a 20-year veteran of the Peruvian police who, putting the bill under his microscope, can often detect the faint outlines of the now-erased Venezuelan currency. “The Venezuelan bills have a lilac-colored security strip, while the US [security strip] is red and blue,” explains the retired police officer. “Because the paper is real, it passes many of the [forgery detection] tests, but if you look close, you can still read the word “” (ten) which has been reprinted with the words ‘one hundred’.” According to the counterfeiters, every month millions of these fake dollars are smuggled out of Peru and into the US by cash couriers known as “burriers”. Flying out of Jorge Chávez international airport, the “burriers” secret the money inside hollowed out books, the soles of sneakers and inside picture frames. In one attempt, the smugglers filled a suitcase with Furbies, the children’s toys, each stuffed full of fake $100 bills. “Most of the bills end up in the United States – they go through Mexico,” explained Chavez. “There are Peruvian-Mexicans who are in charge of passing the money over the border. You don’t [smuggle] by airplane [directly] into the United States because their airport control uses the latest technologies … These bills get into the US over the frontier by the . This is a mafia – they get the bills into Texas and California.” In an attempt to break up the counterfeit gangs and reduce the flood of fake cash, the US secret service set up a regional office in Lima three years ago to work closely with Peruvian police. But infiltrating the gangs is difficult. The counterfeiters live and work in marginal neighborhoods where outsiders are instantly noticed and often unwelcome. For the Peruvian police, rampant corruption in the judiciary and among their peers makes the battle against counterfeiters a weary fight. Hoping to disrupt the counterfeiters, the US Treasury has launched a seemingly endless string of redesigns to US currency, adding features both public and private to make the bills ever harder to copy. Given the leap in printing technologies, however, innovations are volleyed back and forth as the US government serves up a new round of holograms, floating ink and security strips, while the forgers fire back by reverse engineering those same features. It’s not a match likely to end anytime soon. “Every time a new design would come out, we would have an informal pool on how soon it would be counterfeited,” said retired agent Brewer. Despite the flood of Peruvian-made fake bills entering into circulation, Brewer says the Peruvian bills never make it beyond the “retail” street level of commerce. Hi-tech magnetic ink allows counting machines at banks to instantly sort the authentic cash from the fake bills. “There is no counterfeit bill that I know of that will pass the scrutiny of the equipment used by banks worldwide. So in my opinion, it is not a threat to our banking system in that way. But the dollar stands for the integrity of the US and people everywhere depend on that.”  While police officials struggle to maintain an organized opposition to the flood of fake dollars, the counterfeiters continue to innovate. By coloring the bills with run-of-the-mill yellow highlighters, the criminals simulate “security fibers” that glow under ultraviolet counterfeit detection systems. Using tiny pushpins, the counterfeiters riddle their freshly minted bills with tiny holes giving the impression of raised lettering . “They are very good artists,” said Urcia. Like many emerging artists, however, counterfeiters often have a huge ego and an unquenchable desire for recognition, according to police investigators. “I used to carry on about how good their product was and what a genius they were, and they would throw caution right out the window and ignore any suspicion,” said Brewer. “Counterfeiters are proud of their work, and I can’t tell you how useful that is when doing undercover work.”</content>
<class_name>Peru,Americas,US crime,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:30:15+0100</date>
<title>'Counterfeiting is an art': Peruvian gang of master fabricators churns out $100 bills</title>
<content>Labor will oppose any attempt to extend discrimination law exemptions to allow people who object to same-sex marriage to deny goods and services to gay couples.Opposition leader Bill Shorten made the pledge at Guardian Australia’s marriage equality event Why Knot in Sydney on Thursday. Responding to a questioner who asked him to rule out allowing bakers not to sell cakes to gay weddings, Shorten said Labor would oppose such discrimination law exemptions and repeal them at the earliest available opportunity if they passed.“It’s not allowed now under the current law – why would we water down existing laws? We don’t need to water down anti-discrimination law to keep some people [who oppose same-sex marriage] happy.”According to reports attorney general George Brandis , including details of exemptions to anti-discrimination law and public funding. But due to division in the party room, , raising the prospect that voters will not know whether the plebiscite would change discrimination law when they vote at the federal election.Greens leader Richard Di Natale said he married his wife Lucy as a public expression of love and commitment to their friends, family and society. “That’s being denied to people because the community says if you’re straight, your love is something we should celebrate; if you’re not straight, the love for your partner is different, [and without marriage] considered not as strong, less important. That’s effectively prejudice.”Shorten said “there are enough progressive Liberals, Greens and Labor MPs that we could have marriage equality before the election if it were put to a free vote”. Australian Marriage Equality national director Rodney Croome warned a same-sex marriage plebiscite would be expensive and divisive. “People with deep prejudice and hatred given the biggest megaphone they’ve ever had,” he said.Marriage equality could return to parliament as early as 18 April, with Labor suggesting . Di Natale backed the move: “That’s a possibility – we need to put as much pressure on [prime minister Malcolm] Turnbull for a conscience vote as possible.”Shorten reiterated Labor’s pledge that, if elected, it would hold a parliamentary vote on same-sex marriage in parliament within 100 days of the next election. “We need to campaign at next election for candidates who will vote for marriage equality. If you want to have marriage equality you need to change the government.”Labor MPs will be allowed a free vote on same-sex marriage, but  if the issue is still being debated in two terms’ time.Turnbull supports marriage equality and opposed holding a plebiscite when the then prime minister, Tony Abbott, .But since becoming prime minister in September, Turnbull . The Greens party room is unanimously in favour of same-sex marriage. But the party’s pledge to support it “every vote, every time” came under strain when the Greens , labelling it a stunt to derail Senate reform.</content>
<class_name>Marriage equality (Australia),Labor party,Coalition,Human rights,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:29:38+0100</date>
<title>Shorten: Labor won't change discrimination laws to please gay marriage opponents</title>
<content>Zo­ryan Kis was  with his boyfriend on his lap when a group of teenagers came up to them, asked if they were “pa­tri­ots” and doused them in pepper spray.Friends rushed to help but the reaction to their public display of affection was clear – they were not welcome. Kis and his partner, both LGBT activists, had decided to stage the moment to test how far Ukrainian attitudes towards the gay community had come since the historic  of 2014. With the subsequent  Viktor Yanukovych – who was known to court president Vladimir Putin’s favour by emulating his infamous “” – the LGBT community was optimistic that attitudes would change.However, two years on many have since found that persecution and prejudice continues, and that the free­doms called for by the protesters in Kiev’s independence square have been un­evenly ap­plied in post-rev­o­lu­tion  – particularly when it comes to sexuality.In the west­ern city of Lviv lo­cal au­thor­i­ties announced earlier this month they , allowing the ho­tel where the event was about to take place to become sur­rounded by far-right ac­tivists in masks shout­ing “kill, kill, kill”. The or­ga­nis­ers were forced to cancel the event and leave the city over fears for their safety.“The sit­u­a­tion can lean ei­ther way,” says Kis, explaining that with the Maidan protests now playing a key part in the narrative of the “new Ukraine” the LGBT community – despite being on the frontlines of the unrest – has struggled to find its place.He says this is partly because pro-Krem­lin me­dia  the pro-EU protests two years ago as a tantrum by LGBT peo­ple yearn­ing to join “Gay­ropa”. His fellow ac­tivists de­cided not give them fur­ther am­mu­ni­tion by fly­ing the rain­bow flag.To­day, Kis is not sure if that was the right decision. With im­ages of the “heroes of the heavenly hundred” – the pro­tes­ters who were killed during the uprising – dis­played in squares and schools across the coun­try, many in the LGBT community now feel they have been written out of the story.“What we hear from our op­po­nents is ‘you were not there at the Maidan first’,” says Kis, an im­plicit ques­tion about whether the LGBT com­mu­nity is “re­ally Ukrain­ian”, he adds.But for many protesters like Kis, gay rights were at the heart of Euromaidan. Members of the gay community turned out alongside thousands of other Ukrainians because they wanted changes to democracy and improvements to hu­man rights legislation – which they hoped closer association with Eu­rope would bring. “For me Ukraine not sign­ing the As­so­ci­a­tion Agree­ment [under Yanukovych] also meant that it would be­come part of the so-called Russ­ian world. One of the va­lues of the so-called Russ­ian world is state spon­sored ho­mo­pho­bia,” says Kis.The new went on to sign the Association agree­ment leading to small improvement on the issue of gay rights, Kis says.In November the government  mak­ing it il­le­gal to fire some­one on the basis of their sex­u­al­ity. Ukraine also hosted its sec­ond ever LGBT march, which despite being at­tacked by far right ac­tivists was also suc­cess­fully pro­tected by the country’s police force. Sup­port from countries such as Germany, Poland and Sweden has been es­sen­tial for most re­forms in post-rev­o­lu­tion­ary Ukraine, but the dif­fer­ence be­tween the popular anti-cor­rup­tion mea­sures and im­prove­ments to  is that the for­mer have strong lo­cal sup­port.The la­bour code amend­ment was , and last sum­mer’s march might not have taken taken place if western organisations had not put pres­sure on the re­luc­tant po­lice force to protect it.Recent polls also suggest attitudes amongst Ukrainains are yet to shift. A recent study conducted by the Kiev International Institute of Sociology found that just 4.3% of Ukrainians hold “a positive view” of gay people, with 45.2% believing there should be restrictions on gay people’s rights down from 49% in 2011.But in spite of this, Kis says he has hope in his so­ci­ety’s ca­pac­ity for change. He recalls a moment from the Maidan that fu­els this optimism. Af­ter LGBT ac­tivists de­cided not to demon­strate un­der their own ban­ners, far-right pro­tes­tors in­fil­trated the square wav­ing rain­bow flags to stoke unrest. Instead of falling for it, a mem­ber of the Maidan self-de­fence forces shouted as the group came closer: “Every­one keep calm! I know the Ukrain­ian gays are not part of [this] and this is pro-Russ­ian bull­shit.”“I think it was the first time I’d heard ‘Ukrain­ian’ and ‘gay’ in one sen­tence,” Kis says. “It was a sign to me that Ukrain­ian iden­tity can em­brace also gay Ukraini­ans.”</content>
<class_name>Ukraine,LGBT rights,Europe,Vladimir Putin,Viktor Yanukovych,Petro Poroshenko,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:30:08+0100</date>
<title>The 'new Ukraine' is failing us, LGBT activists say</title>
<content>The brightly coloured plastic jugs once played a vital role transporting water during Ghana’s droughts. Now, they’re creating a new environmental catastrophe of their own.Seas of discarded yellow, blue and white containers – referred to locally as “Kufuor gallons” after the water crises endured under president John Kufuor in the early 2000s – have become a troubling part of Ghana’s landscape. No longer used by local communities, vast quantities of jerry cans have built up on city streets, dumps and beaches, contributing to worsening pollution levels. In response to the growing crisis and government inaction, local artist Serge Attukwei Clottey has started using large-scale plastic art installations as a way to draw attention to the issue. The artist says his aim is to galvanise the local community to combat the large quantities of plastic waste now  and endangering wildlife habitats along the coastline.Clottey, who has been gathering the containers for more than 15 years, cuts them into small tiles and shapes them over an open flame, later moulding sections together and binding them with copper.The process results in what he refers to as “paint-less paintings” – large plastic tapestries that also incorporate other salvaged waste items, such as discarded electrical goods or wood, bones and shells gathered from the coastal neighbourhood where he lives and works in the capital, Accra.Influenced by local folk art, Clottey says his work is not just a commentary on the human consumption and waste but a much-needed practical response to the endless cycle of water shortages and pollution experienced in .“Every second across the world, someone leaves a faucet running, takes a long shower, or pours out some unwanted water. Every day in Ghana – where not everyone has access to running water – the streets are filled with children carrying yellow buckets on their heads, on their way to a fountain,” he says.In recent years environmental groups have focused efforts on educating locals about littering and waste management, however the recurring water shortages complicate the issue as the need for the cans keeps returning. “Ghana is one of the driest countries and faces some of the most detrimental consequences from climate change and water shortages. Yet the government does nothing, so I have taken it upon myself to educate through art,” Clottey says.In the wake of El Niño, Ghana is once again one of several countries on the continent facing further water crises. In Ethiopia, the population is now heading towards its worst drought in 50 years while in Zimbabwe’s president Robert Mugabe has declared a state of disaster.“People do not care to listen about how they should use less water or waste less. Children are not educated about global warming in school, and they are not inclined to take action about the issue,” Clottey says, but he hopes the vast plastic installations will help change attitudes both at home and abroad.</content>
<class_name>Ghana,Drought,Art,Africa,Water,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:45:07+0100</date>
<title>The Ghanaian turning thousands of discarded plastic bottles into art</title>
<content>Plans and photographs of the home and office of Belgium’s prime minister, Charles Michel, have been found on a computer abandoned near a terrorist hideout in Brussels, according to Belgian sources.The laptop was found in a bin near a flat in the Schaerbeek district that had been a makeshift bomb factory for the terrorists who killed  and injured at least 340 in last week’s .The find was first reported by several Belgian newspapers, including De Tijd and L’Echo, and has been confirmed by the Guardian. A well-placed source said: “We don’t know if they [the terrorists] were planning anything, but we do know they were investigating.” The laptop contained information about the prime minister’s official residence and office at 16 rue de la Loi in central Brussels, as well as photographs of the building taken from the street.A spokesman for Michel said reinforced security measures had already been in place for several months.The neoclassical building at Rue de la Loi is less than 6km away from the . It was from this fifth-floor flat that the suicide bomber Ibrahim el-Bakraoui and two accomplices made the journey to Zaventem airport on 22 March to launch the attacks against unsuspecting travellers.As news of the laptop find emerged, authorities revised down the number of people killed in the attacks: the Belgian crisis centre has announced that 32 people died, not 35 as stated earlier by health officials. “Deep checks” had shown that three people had been counted twice on two separate lists, the crisis centre said. The 32 dead comprised 17 Belgians and 15 foreigners, from countries including the UK, US, China, India, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain and Germany. The three suicide bombers – the Bakraoui brothers and Najim Laachraoui – are not included in the tally of the dead.One week after the attacks, Brussels remains in a tense mood, with the airport and several metro stations still closed. On Wednesday, city officials announced that a demonstration by far-right protesters against Islamism had been banned. Génération Identitaire, a French far-right group, had been planning a march in Molenbeek with the rallying call “expel the Islamists” on Saturday afternoon, but the local authority has taken out a police order banning any public meeting on that day. Françoise Schepmans, Molenbeek’s mayor, said she did not often take such decisions. “When we struggle against extremism, we are against all extremisms. It is out of the question to let people who are crazy with rage express themselves,” she told Le Soir She warned that police would take action against anyone flouting the ban. Molenbeek has struggled to shake off its reputation as a hotbed for extremists, even before the Paris attacks suspect Salah Abdeslam was . </content>
<class_name>Brussels attacks,Belgium,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:42:57+0100</date>
<title>Laptop containing plans of Belgian PM's home found near terrorists' flat</title>
<content>n 13 April, coast guard officials from the US and Canada will train for a cruise ship catastrophe: a mass rescue from a luxury liner on its maiden voyage through the remote and deathly cold waters between the Northwest Passage and the Bering Strait.The prospect of just such a disaster occurring amid the uncharted waters and capricious weather of the Arctic is becoming all too real. The loss of Arctic sea ice cover, due to climate change, has spurred a sharp rise in shipping traffic – as well as coast guard rescue missions – and increased the risks of oil spills, shipping accidents, and pollution, much to the apprehension of native communities who make their living on the ice. It’s into these turbulent waters that the luxury cruise ship Crystal Serenity will set sail next August, departing from Seward, , and transiting the Bering Strait and Northwest Passage, before docking in New York City 32 days later.The scale of the Crystal – 1,700 passengers and crew – and the potential for higher-volume traffic in the Arctic has commanded the attention of the coast guard, government officials and local communities, all trying to navigate an Arctic without year-round ice.“If something were to go wrong it would be very, very bad,” said Richard Beneville, the mayor of the coastal town of Nome, which the Crystal is due to visit. “Most cruise ships that get here have passenger manifests of 100, maybe 150. This is a very different ship.”A century after explorer  transited the sea route connecting the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, officials and local communities are struggling to keep pace with the changes in the Arctic set in motion by the disappearing sea ice.Scientists expect the Arctic will be almost entirely ice free in the summer within 25 years – exposing profitable new year-round shipping routes. “The United States should be getting prepared by building infrastructure in the north,” Robert Papp, a former coast guard admiral and the State Department’s special envoy to the Arctic, said.“Yes, we are concerned about this cruise ship going through but we have been concerned for a number of years because during the summer time Shell has been going up there to drill, other companies have been exploring, there has been an increase even in recreational sailors or adventure sailors going up there.” The Crystal is by far the biggest and most luxuriously appointed vessel to sail through the Northwest Passage since the crossing became accessible to ships without an icebreaker in 2007. Just 17 ships crossed through the passage last year, according to the US coast guard.Prices for the journey aboard the 14-deck luxury liner start at nearly $22,000 rising to $120,000 for a deluxe stateroom – and this year’s cruise is sold out, according to the company.The 13 April table-top planning exercise, involving US and Canadian coast guard and government officials, will walk Crystal operators and rescue officials through the nightmarish scenario of rescuing hundreds of passengers up to 1,000 miles from the nearest coast guard base, officials said.Communications in the Arctic are extremely challenging – cellphone reception is patchy, and there are no roads. Most of the towns along the Crystal’s route are tiny. Even Nome, which has a sizable population, has just 18 hospital beds.“We all have to be very proactive in trying to game out what we do in an emergency situation,” Lt Commander Jason Boyle, the coast guard’s prevention officer for the Alaska region, said in a telephone interview.The Crystal will sail with an icebreaking escort vessel carrying two helicopters along its entire route, Paul Garcia, a company spokesman, wrote in an email. Ice pilots, polar bear researchers, and veterans of other Arctic expeditions will be aboard to ensure passengers’ safety and to protect the local wildlife, environment and customs, the company said.For the coastal town of Nome, and the other ports of call on the Crystal’s route, the cruise symbolises the economic possibilities of an ice-free Arctic in the summer.Nome, which saw just 35 dockings in the 1990s, had more than 730 last year.“I think tourism is good for Nome,” Beneville, the town’s indefatigable mayor, said. “In tourism there is a saying: ‘if people can get there, they will go’, and that is becoming possible.” He went on: “There is a lot at stake here. We want Nome to be a strategic point in the north.”But even before the Crystal Serenity began planning its voyage, the coast guard and local communities were raising concerns that the Arctic was not ready for the sharp rise in traffic through the Bering Strait.The coast guard recorded 540 crossings through the narrow passage between the US and Russia last year – more than double the number in 2008. The vessels included Korean cargo ships, Russian tankers, supply barges, oil industry vessels and smaller cruise ships – and adventurers.Commander Mark Wilcox, the Arctic planner for the US coast guard, falls back on the phrase “tyranny of distance” to describe the epic challenges of assuring safe passage through the northern waterways for an increasing number of independent tourists.On 4 March, two British adventurers who set out to ski across the Bering Strait had to be flown to safety from thin ice – an operation that required two coast guard helicopters, a C-130 military transport plane, and 24 highly trained personnel deployed from a base 700 miles away, according to the coast guard. Two years ago, a scientific research ship in the Chukchi Sea was diverted to rescue adventurers. In 2010, a smaller cruise ship went aground in the Canadian Arctic, forcing the evacuation of some 300 passengers.“We are starting to see more of the adventure tourists that have a lot more interest in the Arctic,” Wilcox said. “As we see more human activity it increases our risk for potential incidents.”In addition to emergencies, local people said they were afraid of oil spills, pollution and waste, because of the rise in shipping traffic. In 2012, hunters from St Lawrence Island reported finding heavily oiled seals and seabirds in the Bering Strait. A year earlier, government wildlife biologists began recording a mysterious illness killing off seals, as well as avian cholera.Local communities grew concerned about the use of heavy bunker fuels, and dumping of grey water from passing vessels.The loss of ice opening up the Arctic to year-round traffic was also upending the way of life for native Alaskan communities who have used the ice as a platform for hunting and fishing, or as transport routes. The winter ice could no longer be trusted, according to local people.“There are five to seven people in the last five years that I know of off the top of my head who have gone through the ice on snow machines or four-wheelers while travelling,” said Anahma Shannon, who works with Kawerak, a service organisation for native Alaskans in the Bering coastal region.In typical winters, there is about a mile of solid ice from shore, enabling walrus hunters to approach their prey on land. Hunting from small boats is much riskier. But in this year’s record high temperatures, the ice is thin and drifting away from the shore. “This year may be the first year in recent history that we haven’t had the outside ice,” Shannon said. The season’s thin and slushy ice was also hurting fisheries. In past winters, it would be common to see people fishing for king crab on the ice off Nome, setting out traps through holes drilled into the ice. Commercial fishermen might strike out farther, riding their snowmobiles six or seven miles across the ice to Sled Island. But the thinner ice was squeezing fishermen into smaller areas and shallower waters, said Adem Boeckmann, a commercial fisherman. “The lack of ice is making it tougher to find the crab and harvest them,” he said. He estimated the catch was only a third or a half of last year’s. “We are not making money we are just making ends meet.”The native Alaskan communities recognise that cruise ships and tourist dollars could bring big money to places like Nome. But they were already experiencing loss of income and a way of life because of the retreat of the sea ice. The prospect of a flood of visitors to the region was only adding to those fears of losing their livelihoods and their culture, said Austin Ahmasuk, who runs Kawerak’s marine programme.“We can draw these very clear parallels from the past for the possibility of the destruction of our culture,” he said. “Let’s just say we suspect that maybe not the most holistic way of approaching development will occur.”</content>
<class_name>Alaska,Oceans,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T16:32:07+0100</date>
<title>A new Titanic? US and Canada prepare for worst as luxury Arctic cruise sets sail</title>
<content>The head of a women’s rights organisation remained defiant after becoming the focus of an investigation launched by the Egyptian authorities as part of its ongoing crackdown on civil society. Mozn Hassan, executive director of , said the group would continue to work, regardless of what happened to her.Hassan has been summoned for questioning, along with other staff, over claims that Nazra has been operating illegally.“Other people will carry on the work,” she said. “I know it’s my choice. I have this passion about feminism in my country. I know it sounds cheesy, but there is something about Nazra. It’s not about [one] person – we’ve really managed to have this collective.“I know other people in  are managing things. It’s not about me existing … People who have been in this process, I think they will continue.”Hassan, speaking during the Commission on the Status of  in New York earlier this month, received a summons to appear before authorities during the annual two-week meeting.She was was due to be questioned on Tuesday, but the hearing was postponed.This week, women’s rights activists and academics from around the world signed statements denouncing the attack on Nazra and the increasing clampdown on feminist groups and rights defenders.In  on Monday, 43 women’s rights organisations condemned “the escalating targeting of civil society organisations in Egypt, and in particular the targeting by the authorities of the Egyptian feminist organisation Nazra for Feminist Studies, founded and led by woman [sic] human rights defender Mozn Hassan, who is a prominent feminist and is known for her extensive work on feminist movement-building and combating sexual violence in the public sphere”. The statement added that the summoning of Hassan followed “numerous steps taken to stifle her activism in the public space, including systemic smear campaigns against her and other civil society leaders, issuance of a gag order on the media for coverage of the foreign funding case, in addition to the lack of transparency and non-declaration of charges directed against [her] until now.”The statement called on the authorities to drop the case against Nazra. “Instead, the Egyptian state should be taking all measures necessary to acknowledge the important and pivotal work … Hassan conducts in the advancement of women’s rights, provision of support services for survivors of sexual violence and a feminist discourse that is against all forms of violence and extremism.”Another statement, signed by 130 academics, added: “As academics, university professors and scholars, who are socially and politically engaged and concerned, we consider the investigation [against] Mozn Hassan a direct threat to the feminist and activist engagement of Nazra for Feminist Studies, whose work has focused on contributing to the continuity and development of the feminist movement in Egypt. We also view the investigation as part of the larger crackdown on civil society organisations, and on fundamental freedoms and rights in Egypt, including academic freedoms.”Hassan is being investigated under , known as the “foreign funding case” because it targets local and  for illegally receiving funding from overseas.Investigations began in 2011 and resulted in the . The government has recently reopened the case, which has led to travel bans, asset freezes and the questioning of prominent activists.Other groups currently under investigation include the Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, the Arabic Network for Human Rights Information, the Nadeem Center for Rehabilitation of Victims of Violence, and the human rights activist Negad el-Borai. “Public spaces are shrinking [for civil society], but now they are closing the space,” said Hassan. “Things have been happening in the last two months.”She said she believes Nazra, which has been registered as an NGO since 2007, is being specifically targeted because it campaigns for human rights. “We’re not this nice acceptable women’s organisation, we’re not a development-only [organisation]. We think the feminist movement is a political movement. We’ve always had a human rights perspective … we are not like other feminist organisations.”She added: “If they want me, better to take me then the rest of the team.“We are trying to have a survival mechanism. As long as we can work, we are doing things.”</content>
<class_name>Egypt,Middle East and North Africa,Protest,Feminism,Women,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:02:26+0100</date>
<title>Egyptian feminist leader Mozn Hassan resolute in face of official investigation</title>
<content>The Cypriot ex-wife of an Egyptian man who authorities say admitted to hijacking a domestic EgyptAir flight and threatened to blow it up with a fake suicide belt says her former husband is an “extremely dangerous man” who used drugs, terrorised his family and beat her and their children.Marina Paraschou rejected media reports that 59-year-old Seif Eldin Mustafa hijacked the Airbus A320 with 72 passengers and crew onboard out of love for her. , Paraschou said Mustafa never asked to speak to her and police only asked her to identify his voice.Paraschou said Mustafa was a “fanatical” Palestine Liberation Organisation supporter who bragged about participating in the killing of three Israeli soldiers and was jailed for four years in Syria.Paraschou said the last conversation she had with Mustafa since the couple divorced in 1990 took place a few years ago, following the death their daughter, one of four children. Paraschou said that when she called Mustafa to tell him, he responded: “And what do I care? I don’t mind that she died”. “This man never cared for his children for one minute, either when he lived here or when he went away,” Paraschou is quoted as saying. “He only offered pain, misery and terror. And even now when he’s in police custody, my children and I are afraid.”Paraschou told Phileleftheros she married Mustafa in 1985 when she was 20. The couple divorced five years later.She said while married, the couple lived in her parents’ home and that Mustafa never held down a job, beating his children when he couldn’t support his drug habit. Egypt’s interior ministry said Mustafa had a long criminal record and had finished serving a one-year prison term in March 2015. police told AP that Mustafa’s criminal record on the island stretched back to 1988, when he was convicted on six counts of forging passports and handed a suspended sentence. He was later deported to Egypt following domestic violence charges by Paraschou.He re-entered Cyprus on an assumed Qatari identity, but was tracked down and again deported to  in 1990.Mustafa, who is currently being held in Cypriot custody, has told police he acted because he wanted to see his estranged wife and children, saying “what should one do?”Mustafa surrendered on Tuesday after commandeering a domestic Alexandria-Cairo flight. A Larnaca court on Wednesday ordered him to be held in custody for eight days on suspicion of hijacking, abduction, threatening violence, terrorism-related offences and two counts related to possession of explosives. The latter counts were connected to his claim of being strapped with explosives, even though the belt he wore is believed to be fake, a police source said.Egypt’s public prosecutor has asked Cypriot authorities to hand over Mustafa, Egyptian state television reported, but a Cyprus police spokesman and a government official have said any talk of extradition was premature. Mustafa took charge of the early morning flight by showing what appeared to be a belt stuffed with plastic wires and a remote control, directing the flight to the holiday island. All hostages were released unharmed after a six-hour standoff. The suspect allegedly commandeered the aircraft 15 minutes after takeoff from Alexandria. He approached a flight attendant and showed off the belt, attached to a remote control he held in his hand, investigating officer Andreas Lambrianou told the court. “The suspect asked all passengers and crew to hand in their passports, then gave two messages to a member of the crew, asking that the pilot be informed that he was a hijacker and wanted to land at an airport in Turkey, Greece or Cyprus, but preferably Cyprus,” Lambrianou said. “In a note, he stressed that if the airplane landed on Egyptian territory he would immediately blow the plane up.” </content>
<class_name>Egypt,Cyprus,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:41:40+0100</date>
<title>EgyptAir hijacker's ex-wife says he is 'extremely dangerous'</title>
<content>At least 14 people have died and 100 are feared to be trapped after a flyover being built in Kolkata collapsed. Firefighters and residents were trying to rescue those trapped under the wreckage of the metal and cement structure, which came down in a busy commercial district of the Indian city.“Monumental tragedy. Rescue ops on. Many feared dead,” Derek O’Brien, spokesman for the left-wing party that governs the state of West Bengal of which Kolkata is the capital, said in a tweet. Television footage from the scene showed a bloodied hand reaching out from under what appeared to be a massive girder. People were trying to hand bottles of water to survivors pinned underneath.More than 70 injured were admitted to two hospitals in Kolkata, the capital of West Bengal state, hospital officials said. “The condition is pathetic. At this moment no one has any clue how many people are trapped,” said Raichand Mohta, a police officer at the scene. The Indian home minister, Rajnath Singh, tweeted his concern and announced that rescue teams would be rushed to the scene. Yet there was little sign of a coordinated rescue operation, with access for heavy lifting equipment restricted by the buildings on either side of the flyover and heavy traffic in the area.A senior police officer on the scene said that 15 critically injured people had been rescued. “Most were bleeding profusely. The problem is that nobody is able to drive an ambulance to the spot,” said Akhilesh Chaturvedi. The 1.2 mile flyover has been under construction since 2009 and has missed several deadlines for completion. The contract for the overpass was signed in 2008 and it was expected to be completed in two years. Mamta Banerjee, the top elected leader in the state, accused the previous communist government in West Bengal of not adhering to building regulations.“The concrete had been laid last night at this part of the bridge,” resident Ramesh Kejriwal said. “I am lucky as I was planning to go downstairs to have juice. When I was thinking about it, I saw that the bridge had collapsed.” “Every night, hundreds of labourers would build the flyover and they would cook and sleep near the site by day,” said eyewitness Ravindra Kumar Gupta, who together with friends pulled out six bodies. The disaster could play a role in the West Bengal state election, one of five being held from next month that will give a verdict on Narendra Modi’s nearly two years as prime minister.</content>
<class_name>India,South and Central Asia,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:07:52+0100</date>
<title>Kolkata flyover collapse: several people dead and many feared trapped</title>
<content>Strikes by French air traffic controllers are expected to cause travel chaos for thousands of passengers on Thursday.Aviation authorities told airlines to cancel 20% of their flights from Paris Orly airport and a third of flights from Marseille as air traffic controllers went on strike again.Paris Charles De Gaulle airport was not expected to be affected by the 36-hour walkout over job cuts and the lack of investment in new technology.The Airlines for  lobby group said it was the 43rd strike by French air traffic controllers since 2009. It was due to end at 5am on Friday.A strike last week disrupted travel plans for thousands of passengers as airlines were forced to cancel up to a third of flights.Budget airline Ryanair said it was cancelling  because of the industrial action. and British Airways said a number of their flights were also affected:The strikes coincide with a fresh day of protests over labour reforms in yet another challenge for the embattled government of President François Hollande.Some reform-minded unions have given their support to proposed changes to France’s famously stringent labour laws, but tens of thousands of students and workers took to the streets a week ago, angry over plans to make it easier for struggling companies to fire workers.Cars were burned in Paris and more than 30 people arrested as protesters clashed with police, who responded with tear gas.Organisers have threatened an even bigger day of demonstrations on Thursday. Parliament is set to vote on the reforms in late April or early May.The demonstrations are another challenge to Hollande’s authority, coming after he on Wednesday  following the Paris attacks, including a plan to strip convicted terrorists of their French nationality.In a blow to his faltering credibility, Hollande said an agreement between the two houses of parliament on the measures had proved impossible.</content>
<class_name>France,Air transport,Europe,Industrial action,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:17:18+0100</date>
<title>French air traffic strike: many Paris Orly and Marseille flights cancelled</title>
<content>The chief of Libya’s new UN-backed government has reached Tripoli, defying threats from city militias, to proclaim a new order for the conflict-ravaged country in a move that could eventually pave the way for international forces to provide troops and air support.Since Libya’s airspace had been closed by the existing Tripoli-based authorities, the  travelled from Tunisia by sea to the city’s Abusita naval base.Sarraj is expected to call for outside help to train a new Libyan army and launch airstrikes against .Sarraj told Reuters the council members had travelled in a Libyan navy vessel from the Tunisian port of Sfax, 12 hours away. “There are challenges ahead of us, including uniting Libyans and healing divisions,” he said after arriving. He later made a brief statement saying the government would release a programme in the coming days.“We will work for a ceasefire across Libya, for national reconciliation and the return of displaced people, and we will seek to confront ,” he said.Western powers have recognised Sarraj’s government of national accord as Libya’s only legitimate government, but it faces opposition from both of the country’s existing regimes – the Tripoli-based General National Congress (GNC) and the elected House of Representatives in eastern  – and Sarraj may flounder without western support.Late on Wednesday gunmen stormed the headquarters of a Libyan television station that is close to the unrecognised authorities in control of Tripoli.Armed men burst into the headquarters of satellite TV station al-Nabaa in central Tripoli, cut its transmissions and forced out its staff, according to two journalists from the channel.One Al-Nabaa journalist said the gunmen appeared to be supporters of the UN-backed unity government. “A group of armed men, some of them in fatigues and some in civilian clothing, stormed our offices and gathered the employees in one room,” a staff member told AFP. A colleague said broadcasting had been suspended, adding that no one had been hurt. The British foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, said the UK would “stand ready to respond positively to requests for support and assistance” from Sarraj, reigniting controversy over whether Britain will send troops to the strife-torn country.Crispin Blunt MP, chairman of the foreign affairs select committee,  of planning to deploy up to 1,000 troops as part of a coalition training and assistance mission to Libya, which was denied by officials. Blunt has called on the government to present any deployment plans to parliament amid anxiety about the UK being sucked into a new Middle Eastern conflict.Guma el-Gamaty, a member of Libya Dialogue, the UN-chaired body that created the new government, said Sarraj was expected to ask for help to bomb Isis and train Libyan units, but ruled out the use of foreign troops in a combat role. “The new government may ask for logistics support, for training, but not for troops,” he said. “There may be selective airstrikes [against Isis] but the ground fighting will be conducted by Libyans.”Hammond welcomed Sarraj’s presence in Tripoli, saying: “The arrival of the presidency council in the capital of Libya is an important step towards the establishment of an effective government of national accord.”Sarraj faces a trial of strength with the GNC, which earlier this week warned him not to travel to the capital, where there has been several nights of militia skirmishes.For the moment, Sarraj is guarded by naval personnel and militias from Misrata, which are among the most powerful formations in Libya.An indication of the complexities facing the new government came hours after it arrived, when gunfire broke out from a nearby base of another Misrata militia opposed to it. The EU foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, appealed for Libyans to work with Sarraj: “The arrival of the presidency council in the capital represents a unique opportunity for Libyans from all factions to reunite and reconcile,” he said.The EU has offered a €100m aid package, and the US Libya envoy, Jonathan Winer, said Washington stood ready to help. Sarraj faces a complex challenge in persuading Libyans to accept a government that has weak legitimacy in the eyes of critics, having been appointed by Libya Dialogue without an election process.El-Gamaty said most Libyans would welcome the new government with the promise to end a 20-month civil war. “People are absolutely sick of it; they can’t take any more. Banks have no money, bread is expensive, people are scared, there is so much insecurity.”Western officials hope Sarraj can unite Libya’s two warring governments as the precursor to joint action against Isis, which controls 120 miles of coastline around the city of Sirte, and tackle migrant smuggling. Italy has offered up to 3,000 troops to train Libyan forces, provided other western powers also help.Analysts say Sarraj’s immediate job is gaining control of Tripoli: “The big task is to gain a consensus and end the armed conflict,” said Abdul Rahman AlAgeli, a non-resident fellow of the . “That’s before we even think about governance.”</content>
<class_name>Libya,Africa,Middle East and North Africa,Islamic State,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T01:03:28+0100</date>
<title>Chief of Libya's new UN-backed government arrives in Tripoli</title>
<content>Serb ultranationalist Vojislav Šešelj has been acquitted of all nine charges of committing atrocities by the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.The former deputy prime minister of Serbia, 61, who is being treated for cancer, had been accused of recruiting and arming the Serb paramilitaries blamed for carrying out war crimes in Bosnia and  during the early 1990s. The ruling comes less than a week after the former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić was sentenced to 40 years in prison after  over the 1995 massacre in Srebrenica. Šešelj, however, was found to have had no military “hierarchical responsibility” for the volunteers that he encouraged to join the Serb army.Šešelj was not at the courtroom in The Hague to hear the verdict. He had repeatedly refused to cooperate with the tribunal, staging a hunger strike, refusing to enter a plea and declining to present a defence. He had been allowed to return to  because of his deteriorating health.Prosecutors had charged Šešelj, who founded the Serbian Radical party, with three counts of crimes against humanity and six counts of war crimes. The accusations included that he incited torture, murder, forcible deportations and persecution on religious and racial grounds.Šešelj was alleged to have propagated an inflammatory policy of uniting “all Serbian lands” in a homogeneous Serbian state, which he referred to as greater Serbia.But the ICTY judgment said the prosecution’s case had been full of “confusion” and that “a lot of the evidence shows that [his] collaboration was aimed at defending the Serbs and the traditionally Serb territories or at preserving Yugoslavia, not at committing the alleged crimes”. In the majority ruling, the ICTY’s presiding judge, Jean-Claude Antonetti, said: “One of the key findings of the [court] was to note that while Vojislav Šešelj may have had a certain amount of moral authority over his party’s volunteers, they were not his subordinates when they were engaged in military operations.“The totality of the evidence substantiates the fact that the purpose of sending volunteers was not to commit crimes, but to support the war effort. “The ... findings do not by any means presume to underestimate, and even less to conceal, the crimes committed in different localities in Croatia and [Bosnia], in which the volunteers deployed by Vojislav Šešelj or his party may have taken part or have been indirectly involved. “The majority [of the judges] simply notes that it is not satisfied that the recruitment and subsequent deployment of volunteers implies that Vojislav Šešelj knew of these crimes on the ground, or that he instructed or endorsed them.” Antonetti continued: “The [court] by a majority ... was unable to find beyond all reasonable doubt that, in calling upon the Serbs to “cleanse” Bosnia ... Vojislav Šešelj was calling for ethnic cleansing of Bosnia’s non-Serbs. “The majority [of judges], in fact, believes that the evidence supplied by the prosecution is not sufficient to exclude the possibility, in view of the context, that in making this appeal, Vojislav Šešelj was rather participating in the war effort by galvanising the Serb forces ... Following this verdict, Vojislav Šešelj is now a free man.”Welcoming his acquittal, Šešelj praised the UN judges who dismissed the charges. “This time, after all the trials that accused innocent Serbs, who received draconian sentences, two judges appeared who are honourable and fair people,” he said at a press conference in Belgrade.The judges had “shown that their professionalism and honour are above any political pressure” and brought “the only possible verdict” despite it being an “anti-Serb court”, Seselj said. “The moment I left for The Hague, I knew they could not prove I had committed a single crime.”His acquittal was criticised by Croatian survivors of the 1991-95 conflict. “This acquittal leaves me speechless,” said Vesna Bosanac, the head of a hospital in Vukovar besieged by pro-Šešelj militia in 1991. “The only thing that awaits him is the judgment of God.”The verdict is likely to boost the political prospects of Šešelj and his supporters ahead of Serbia’s parliamentary elections next month. The prosecution can appeal against the judgment.Šešelj’s trial began in 2007 and heard 99 witnesses. Since its establishment in 1993, the ICTY has indicted 161 people for serious violations of humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia between 1991 and 2001. Proceedings against 149 have finished and cases against 11 accused are continuing.</content>
<class_name>International criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia,War crimes,International criminal justice,Serbia,Europe,Bosnia-Herzegovina,Croatia,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:29:14+0100</date>
<title>Serb nationalist Vojislav Šešelj acquitted of war crimes at The Hague</title>
<content>Women who have abortions should be punished if the practice were illegal, Republican presidential frontrunner  said on Wednesday, before retracting his claim amid an outcry.Trump, who has held opposing positions on the abortion in the past, said women should receive “some form of punishment” if it were banned in the US. He was unable to say whether he believed the punishment should be a small fine or a long prison sentence.The remarks prompted an outcry from all quarters, and once again underscored his poor approval ratings among women. The Democratic frontrunner, Hillary Clinton, decribed the comments as “horrific and telling”. Anti-abortion campaigners, who focus their efforts on punishing those who carry out abortions, distanced themselves from the remarks.Amid the storm, Trump issued a swift clarification of the comments. His position “had not changed”, he said, despite going on to fully recant the earlier statements he made to interviewer Chris Matthews on MSNBC.The latest Trump conflagration began during the taping of a town hall event, when Matthews asked him to define his “pro-life” stance and assertions that abortion should be banned.“Do you believe in punishment for abortion – yes or no – as a principle,” asked Matthews.“The answer is there has to be some form of punishment,” said Trump.“For the woman?” Matthews said.“Yeah, there has to be some form,” Trump replied.“Ten cents, 10 years, what,” Matthews asked again, pressing.“That I don’t know,” said Trump.The 90-second exchange inflamed Democratic pro-choice advocates, Republicans who have criticized Trump for flip-flopping on the issue, and anti-abortion advocates.In a 1999 interview, Trump described himself as “”, and also said he would not “ban abortion” if he was ever elected president. But his position as a presidential candidate has changed starkly.Trump later tried to clarify his position in a statement. However, he seemed to acknowledge that the establishment of any anti-abortion law would fall to Congress or state legislatures.“If Congress were to pass legislation making abortion illegal and the federal courts upheld this legislation, or any state were permitted to ban abortion under state and federal law, the doctor or any other person performing this illegal act upon a woman would be held legally responsible, not the woman. The woman is a victim in this case as is the life in her womb. My position has not changed – like Ronald Reagan, I am pro-life with exceptions,” the statement said. wrote in a Twitter post soon after the remarks emerged: “Just when you thought it couldn’t get worse. Horrific and telling.”Planned Parenthood Action Fund, the political arm of America’s best-known abortion provider, said the statements were tantamount to an incitement of violence. The Susan B Anthony List, an anti-abortion group, attempted to clarify the position of the anti-abortion lobby, calling Trump a “convert” to the movement. “[Let] us be clear: punishment is solely for the abortionist who profits off of the destruction of one life and the grave wounding of another,” said president Marjorie Dannenfelser in a statement. The exchange prompted immediate questions for other Republican candidates about how they would enforce an “abortion ban”.Ohio governor and Republican nominee hopeful John Kasich told Chuck Todd the same afternoon that punishing women who have illegal abortions, in the hypothetical situation that there were a ban, was not “an appropriate response”.“Absolutely not, and I mean I do have exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the mother,” Kasich said.Todd asked how an “abortion ban” would be enforced. “Well, look,” said Kasich, “I think [the exceptions are] rape, incest, life of the mother, and perhaps you build some restrictions, but I think you have to be very careful in the way you do it.”In a statement issued by his campaign, Ted Cruz dismissed Trump’s remarks as a cry for attention. “Once again Donald Trump has demonstrated that he hasn’t seriously thought through the issues, and he’ll say anything just to get attention,” the Republican presidential candidate said. “On the important issue of the sanctity of life, what’s far too often neglected is that being pro-life is not simply about the unborn child; it’s also about the mother – and creating a culture that respects her and embraces life. Of course we shouldn’t be talking about punishing women; we should affirm their dignity and the incredible gift they have to bring life into the world.” </content>
<class_name>Donald Trump,Abortion,US politics,US elections 2016,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:29:14+0100</date>
<title>Donald Trump retracts call for women who have abortions to be 'punished'</title>
<content>Who said that this government is incapable of joined-up thinking? Your report (, 26 March) proves otherwise. Surely, the results it expects are a reduction in both the cost and the health status of meat, followed by higher rates of death. Most of the deaths will be in citizens with less efficient auto-immune systems – the old and disabled – so welfare spending on pensions and disability benefits will fall.Once the public perceives meat as a threat to its health, people will switch to a healthier, largely vegetarian diet, with the small amount of meat eaten being grass-fed animals from high-welfare systems. This in turn will make it easier to achieve reductions in climate-changing gases, as well as lower levels of obesity in the population, and thus lower costs to the NHS.All splendid stuff – worthy of at least a peerage for Liz Truss, so long as Jeremy Hunt can persuade the chancellor that the increased number of A&E cases will only be temporary. This should be easy, given his insistence on a “long-term economic plan”. It is sensible that current farm animal welfare codes are updated to reflect the modern poultry industry. The current codes were written in the 1990s when the genetic science and technology employed on farms were quite different.Moreover, it makes sense for the codes to be compiled by the people who are most in touch with the realities of UK poultry farming. While they are very vocal, the animal welfare NGOs have little experience of the welfare demands of today’s chicken. I work daily on farms and I see the picture evolving at a constant pace.The notion that the UK poultry industry has no concern for farm animal welfare or food safety is outdated.  and animal welfare scandals hit food producers hard, while NGOs rarely have to deal with the practical or commercial implementation of their recommendations. The Freedom Food brand is one example where over-regulation by the RSPCA has stifled an otherwise fantastic opportunity for both farmers and consumers. I am in my 20s and chose a career in the poultry industry because I wanted to have a positive impact on animal welfare, antibiotic resistance and environmental sustainability. I am fully behind the British Poultry Council in its efforts to bring farm animal welfare into the 21st century.  codes always need to be monitored and updated, and getting more guidance from the industry may be a good thing. But it really does matter who is consulted. Getting advice about what should happen on farms from processors and supermarkets is not likely to provide regulation beneficial to farm animals. The people who know what is good for animals and what can be done in a normal day’s work are the stockmen and women who have daily contact with the animals, and the vets who advise them.There is another danger in getting advice from the wrong people, and that is that processors and supermarkets naturally favour big farms, as collecting from fewer units reduces costs. Regulation from processors and growers will be light on reducing harmful practices and heavy on extra equipment and paperwork, whose costs may be trivial for large units but are catastrophic for small farms. As smaller farms disappear, overall landscape diversity will be reduced, and much wildlife will disappear. More importantly, more uniform management of land will destroy many of the ecological niches necessary for the myriad nutrient recycling micro-organisms– adapted to different soil types, latitude, altitude etc – on which our food production depend. You do not need to print any further articles on the Tory government, deregulation of food laws and consequent food scandals. Just keep reprinting John Vidal’s analysis (, 26 March). He has been right in the past, and he is right now. Animal welfare (never much good) will become a joke again, and the consumer will be at great risk. The animal food industry cannot be trusted to regulate itself. The very thought is nonsense. Could this be anything to do with profit, I wonder? The Tories’ latest foray on behalf of big business shows them unwilling yet again to learn anything from recent history. The 2010 Mexican Gulf oil spill, the Libor-rigging scandal, payment protection insurance mis-selling, the 2008 banking crisis and sugar, fat and salt in food are just a few examples where “industry-led guidance” has failed disastrously. The last time a Conservative government took a relaxed line on farm animal welfare it caused the BSE outbreak that led to variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans and the collapse of the domestic and foreign markets for British beef. Are they incapable  of learning from Thatcher’s mistakes?</content>
<class_name>Animal welfare,Animals,Agriculture,Food safety,Food & drink,Conservatives,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T19:03:19+0100</date>
<title>Farm animal welfare codes and the bottom line</title>
<content>The government knows the level of opposition it will face over privatising the Land Registry (, 25 March). That’s why it decided to sneak out the consultation on the sell-off over Easter weekend. The Land Registry has been recording the ownership of land and property in England and Wales since 1862 and doing a fantastic job. It is a highly profitable, trusted, successful public institution that has a 98% customer satisfaction rate.Seventy per cent of the public want it to stay in public ownership where it makes millions for us all every year. When will the  start conserving? The Land Registry is a national treasure that should benefit future generations instead of being sold off for a quick buck.</content>
<class_name>Privatisation,Conservatives,Economic policy,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:11:01+0100</date>
<title>Tories must not be allowed to sell off Land Registry</title>
<content>he border between Italy and Austria that runs through the Alpine Brenner pass has become almost indiscernible in the nearly .The beige building with brown shutters that used to house Austria’s border control is now a store that sells folk costumes – brightly coloured dirndl and lederhosen that are heavily discounted at this time of year. Just across the street, an American-style factory outlet shopping centre, with a Niketown and Lindt shop, is on Italian territory. A small snow-covered roundabout between them is half-Italian, half-Austrian.But now, locals on both sides are bracing themselves for the re-emergence of an old-style border – possibly including passport checks – in this historically sensitive region after  on 1 April.The move is just one example of Austria’s increasingly tough response to the EU migration crisis, which last year saw the town of Brennero become a gateway from Italy to northern Europe for thousands of people from the Middle East and Africa.  received 85,500 applications for asylum in 2015, the third highest number of applications per capita in Europe after Hungary and Sweden.Vienna’s decision risks turning this region, once seen as a symbol of Europe’s peaceful cohesion, into something far different: an emblem of It also stands to stir deeply felt angst and antagonism among the majority German-speaking population in the South Tyrol region of north-eastern Italy, territory that once belonged to the Austro-Hungarian empire but was annexed by  after the first world war. In the fascist era, Mussolini sought to Italianise the minority population – even phasing out German-speaking schools.These days, after the area gained significant autonomy from Rome in the 1970s, South Tyrol’s peaceful integration in Italy is hailed as a model, with the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, often suggesting that Russia and Ukraine could learn from its example.That was true as long as South Tyroleans – who have Italian nationality but see themselves as Tyrolean first – were not reminded of their separation from Austria on a daily basis.“It is something that strongly touches us and is felt in the heart when we here see a a new border to the fatherland going up in this way,” says Martha Stocker, the provincial official in charge of migration and health. “After the border opened, you didn’t have the feeling anymore that we were somehow boxed-in in this state and that we are another nationality. And now suddenly that we are closing it once more, one feels boxed-in again.”Stocker is scrambling to understand what exactly Austria has in mind and to make contingency plans in the event that this area of northern Italy once again becomes a route for thousands of refugees.Sitting back in her chauffeur-driven black Mercedes as she races from one meeting to the next, Stocker readily admits that she has no idea what the Austrians mean when they talk about “border management”. “Those are the expressions they are using and that can mean anything from movable traffic blocks to a fence,” she says, adding that she doubts the Austrians themselves have a concrete plan.It is an issue that has become even more vexing given the sharp increase in migrant arrivals over recent weeks. According to IOM, about 15,000 migrants have arrived in Italy in the first three months of this year, an increase of about 50 per cent compared to the same period last year. In 2015, the vast majority of those migrants would have left Italy in the hopes of making it in northern .Franz Kompatscher, the mayor of Brennero, says he expects Austria will essentially set up roadblocks and pull over cars with suspected migrants, who would then be sent back to Italy. He also expects them to inspect lorries for stowaways.Last spring and summer,  who had landed by boat in southern Italy and made the journey north. For the most part, thousands did it unimpeded.But some did encounter checks on cross-European trains in Italy, which were patrolled by German, Austrian and Italian police working together.Kompatscher says it is far from clear if those patrols on Italian territory were legal, adding that now Austria was preparing to move unilaterally to stop many more migrants at the border, Italy could make it more difficult for Austria.“The big question mark still lies over the trains. The entire Brennero train station is on Italian territory. If the Austrians want to control the trains, the Italians will have to give their permission. I have my doubts about that,” says Kompatscher.While Austrian border guards could probably board trains on Italian territory, they would not be able to begin checking IDs until they reached Austria, and would then have to process migrants in an Austrian location after Brennero station.“Brennero is a village of 250 people. We can’t have a thousand migrants here. When it was just 400 or so it was already difficult. We had 27,000 last year but they were en route. If we have people stopped here that’s a different story,” he said.He is also distressed by reports that Austrian and German officials are meeting to discuss plans about the Italian-Austrian border.“Yesterday I saw the regional head of Tyrol [Austria] and a top official in Bavaria were meeting and there wasn’t a word about South Tyrol, which was not a nice thing because these are actually our friends … if we are friends then actually there should be a different way of going about this. “I understand that there is a problem, but they have to understand that we [also] have a problem,” he said.An expert on migrant flows in the area, Monika Weissensteiner from the Alexander Langer Foundation, says much of what happens in coming months will depend on whether  accepts migrants crossing the border from Austria.“If Germany says no, of course then Austria will block them and then you will have more people here, and they will change route, as it has been with all the other border closures we’ve seen,” she said.“It makes the trajectory longer and more expensive, and makes it more likely that they [migrants] will pay people to get over the border – and then you have events  last year,” she said.Weissensteiner said she did not expect the issue to reignite a demand in South Tyrol for secession from Italy – the long-held wish of some extreme regional parties – but pointed out there was clearly fear among locals that the area could turn into a migrant hotspot, a new hub where refugees and migrants would wait until they were relocated.“They talk about it being  or the next hotspot like in Sicily,” she said.But there is an irony that Weissensteiner can’t help but point out: if a fence was built along the Brennero border tomorrow (logistically impossible), more migrants would seek to make their way into Italy from Austria than the other way around.She said it was a phenomenon that has received little attention so far. Hundreds of people, especially from Afghanistan, who entered Europe through the Balkan route, are trying to reach Italy for the first time, possibly because they could receive more lenient treatment there than Germany, which has declared Afghanistan to be safe. It is not necessarily a trend that will continue if more migrants arrive in southern Italy, which is likely, but has been pronounced since January.For now, Kompatscher and other locals on the Italian side are more preoccupied by the economic impact on tourism and commerce if Austria started checking cars and lorries.“If I have to lower my speed from about 100km/h to 20 or 30, there will automatically be traffic,” the mayor says, noting that lorries idling for half an hour to an hour on one of Europe’s most important transport routes would cost “millions”.Roberto, an Italian-speaking Tyrolean and restaurateur who serves the local speciality of fresh garganelli pasta with speck – a typical Tyrolean dish that melds Austrian and Italian ingredients – said any crackdown by Austria would be “catastrophic for tourism”.“For the economy it’ll be really bad. We saw that when they closed the border for brief periods last year – there were then fewer Germans coming. They’re our biggest customers, but they won’t come if it takes two to three hours of waiting in traffic,” he says.At the dirndl shop a German saleswoman named Ute Penz, who left Germany for Austria 10 years ago for work, praised the move.Looking out her window, she claims she sees migrants on the move everyday, though there were none visible during an interview with the Guardian. “It doesn’t bother me about the border. It’s not like they’re going to stop every car,” she says. “How are we going to keep paying for migrants? It costs money.”She paused, and reflected on her own circumstances. “I also went to Austria for work, but I worked. Nothing was handed to me.”</content>
<class_name>Italy,Austria,Migration,European Union,Europe,Refugees,Germany,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:00:09+0100</date>
<title>Austrian border plan risks turning South Tyrol into emblem of EU disintegration</title>
<content>Gaping Gill is one of the finest natural creations in the UK, ranking with Ben Nevis, Malham Cove or Cheddar Gorge. The recent linking of the Three Counties system – a network connecting Yorkshire, Lancashire and Cumbria – was equivalent to the completion of the Scottish munros or the first polar expeditions.The legal position for access to caves on access land is bizarre and irrational (, 29 March). You can go into a cave entrance, according to Defra, only as far as the light penetrates. Why not as far as sound might penetrate – or fresh air can be detected?Potholers must seek the permission of landowners to venture underground. Landowners do deny access for considerable periods each year. Why is potholing not recognised in the Countryside and Rights of Way (Crow) Act? The legislation stems from the mass trespasses of the 1930s in Derbyshire, when caving was not an issue; there was no lobbying by cavers before the introduction of Crow; there is little experience of potholing by those in Whitehall charged with framing the legislation.There seem to be no good arguments as to why underground access should not be a legal right. There would be no additional burden on landowners. Recognition of the right would reduce landowner liability. There will still be the opportunity for landowners to impose temporary restrictions for land management matters. There will be no costs to the public purse.Defra’s interpretation is unnecessarily restrictive and does not reflect the intention of parliament. The position taken by Defra and  with regard to open access to caves as far as daylight permits is a strange one and appears to be taken in ignorance of one of our planet’s great natural environments. What on earth can be darker than a cave? This peculiar technicality maintains current access by permit only. These have to be applied for in advance by caving club secretaries on headed notepaper, the number of cavers permitted in the cave could be as low as six. When caves flood you lose your chance and must reapply. So much for spontaneity.An argument against open access is the conservation of a fragile environment. The last 10 years or so has shown a massive increase in conservation efforts made by caving clubs and groups. It should be no surprise that conservation has developed alongside the campaign for open access on Crow land. Caving is unlike any other form of exercise; where else can you walk, stoop, squeeze, crawl, climb and swim all in one gritty excursion? Caving takes you into spectacular spaces, places of wonder, lands of lost rivers. To be in a cave is to experience an intense altered state of natural awareness and in these uncertain, earth-changing times, we need such ways of grasping and respecting the forms and forces of nature more than ever. The Crow Act encourages you to walk and climb over mountains; it should also encourage you to walk and climb under them. Swimmers and canoeists would like the right to swim and canoe more widely. The half-hearted Crow Act, unlike the more radical Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003, specifically excluded people from bathing in, or using a vessel on, any non-tidal waters in the access lands. Voluntary access agreements, favoured by government, have not proved a panacea for canoe clubs, not least because of the difficulty of finding out who owns the land beside a river. And access agreements offer nothing for the casual walker who might feel like a swim on a summer’s day.</content>
<class_name>Rural affairs,Natural England,Swimming,Land rights,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:17:06+0100</date>
<title>Caving and the right to roam, above and below ground</title>
<content>The announcement by the new work and pensions secretary, Stephen Crabb, that the changes to personal independence payments (PIP) in George Osborne’s calamity of a budget are to be scrapped is welcome news for hundreds of thousands of disabled people (, 22 March). Yet even the statement that there are no further welfare cuts planned for this parliament is cold comfort to those who live every day with the misery created by years of attacks on the support they require to participate in society.The storm surrounding Cameron’s government over the budget has thrown a spotlight on the extent of inequality at the heart of its plans. IFS figures on the government’s tax and welfare changes have shown that the rich will gain while the poor lose out – so much for “compassionate conservatism”. If  is serious with his talk of the people behind the numbers he needs to do more than just stop new cuts – he should reverse those that have already been made. We suggest he starts by returning the £30 a week he recently voted to steal from those receiving ESA and committing to scrap the notorious work capability assessments that have regularly found people with terminal cancer “fit for work”.          Jackie Ashley is right in saying that laws protecting disabled tenants all too often go unenforced (, 24 March). In fact, despite the protections outlined in the Equality Act, research we conducted in 2014 found that the majority of councils are not thinking about the housing needs of disabled people. Just 16% could provide any data on how many homes in their area were wheelchair-accessible and over 80% did not have an accessible housing register.At present the only option for many disabled people living in unsuitable buildings is to take their council or housing provider to court. This is costly, emotionally exhausting and provides no guarantee of success. The answer is to build an adequate proportion of new homes to “” standards. These homes are easily adaptable and would reduce the cost of adaptations for councils. This way, accessible housing would be readily available for both disabled tenants and those with progressive conditions. Everybody should have the right to a safe, suitable and accessible home to call their own.</content>
<class_name>Disability,Welfare,Conservatives,George Osborne,David Cameron,Stephen Crabb,Housing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:11:49+0100</date>
<title>Tories must reverse attacks on disabled people</title>
<content>As the campaign on Britain’s EU membership continues, it is clear that too much is at stake for it to be fought as a proxy for a Conservative party leadership election (, Jackie Ashley, 30 March). For Labour, Britain’s EU membership is critical to our values as a party and a movement. From supporting British businesses and jobs, to protecting working people and increasing Britain’s influence on the world stage, Britain’s EU membership is vital. Labour communities too would be hardest hit if Britain left Europe. That’s why, unlike the Tories, Labour is united in our campaign to keep Britain in the European Union.Our national conference made clear that we “approve of UK membership of the EU” and we now have 213 out of 231 Labour MPs signed up to campaign to remain in Europe, including the entire shadow cabinet and our party leader, Jeremy Corbyn. As the Electoral Commission decides to appoint the registered campaigns in this referendum, we believe that  should receive the designation and  will continue to be loud and clear in making Labour’s case for our EU membership. Contrary to Mary Dejevsky (, 29 March), a vote to remain would not lead to harmony, openness and cooperation, what she calls “a new collegiate approach to everything”. Like it or not, the EU referendum is a vote of confidence in the government. A vote to remain would therefore be seen as an endorsement of government policies that, in line with the EU’s neoliberal ideology, punish the poor and reward the rich and better off. Far from the milk-and-honey future she conjures up, we will have harsher and more discriminatory austerity policies imposed by a rejuvenated Cameron and Osborne.But a vote to leave would be a vote of no confidence in the government. Not only would Cameron have to go, but such a vote would raise serious questions on the legitimacy of the Tory party continuing to govern with such a small majority and without a new mandate from the electorate. A simple swap of prime ministers, Johnson for Cameron or whatever, will just not do. A general election will have to be called and Jeremy Corbyn will have his day. With the Tories in shambles and EU-loving Blairites humiliated, a Corbyn-led campaign calling for renationalisation and rebalancing the economy, policies that could actually be implemented after we’ve left the EU, will galvanise the electorate in the same way as his campaign for the leadership of the Labour party galvanised party members and supporters. The message to all those who want to see the end of austerity is clear: vote toleave the EU.  Mary Dejevsky is unduly pessimistic about the chances of the “remainers” winning in June. As a native German born during the war, it has always been clear to me that the main reason and purpose of European cooperation (and thus the EU) has been the prevention of conflict among Europe’s diverse nations. Have we in Britain become so smug, 70 years after the end of the worst of all wars, that we think we can go it alone and prosper? In 1975 this issue was central to the referendum campaign. Why not now? The remain campaigners would do well to hail the absence of armed conflict in Europe in our lifetime as Europe’s greatest achievement. The rest, but not this, is open to debate. Owen Jones tells us that “if the British people decide to leave the EU it should be on the basis of informed debate”, which unfortunately is not being offered (, 25 March). Well, certainly not by him. His article ranges from condemnation of a couple of arbitrary tweets, via condemnation of Donald Trump and Ted Cruz, to the viewpoint that we have to support the EU since Isis wants to destroy it. I doubt that Isis much cares about how exactly Europe is run.A truly informed debate on the EU on the part of the left should be about: 1) The huge level of unemployment and low level of growth in the EU, which in countries like Greece, Spain, Italy and France deprive workers of any of their so-called social rights. Unemployed workers do not enjoy maternity and paternity leave or any other social rights; 2) The role of multinational corporations in dictating EU policy; 3) The role of unconstitutional bodies such as the Troika and the Eurogroup in imposing hard-line neoliberal policies on bankrupt member states; 4) The likelihood that the TTIP being negotiated between the EU and the US will lead to the privatisation of the NHS; 5) The increase in EU immigration into the UK suppressing the wages of British workers.  Is the future of the UK to be decided by a small majority of what may be a minority of voters if the turnout is low (, 29 March)? In the face of widespread ignorance and misinformation, many voters may decide to abstain in the referendum. A decision of such historical importance should not be left to the marginal minority. It’s true this is how the present government got into power, but it has already stated the minimum standards it wants to see for important votes to be credible enough to act on. Strikes can only be called in core public services if at least 50% of trade union members entitled to vote have voted, and 40% of those eligible to vote must back action.But strike votes are about temporary and reversible action, unlike leaving the EU. This is far more important than internal party disagreement and all UK voters urgently need to know what will count. Mr Cameron should state that he will only initiate Brexit if the turnout has been more than half of all eligible voters and that at least two-fifths of all eligible voters have voted to leave. He would be respected for doing so, since anything less might be an interesting expression of opinion by a minority of the electorate, but not sufficient to justify such a momentous change for the UK. It’s hard not to sympathise with Jackie Ashley finding the EU remain campaign lacklustre. But there’s a plausible explanation. At present most of remain’s big hitters, along with most of their ground troops, are directing their energies towards 5 May when elections are being held for the Scottish parliament, the Welsh and Northern Ireland assemblies, PCCs across England and Wales and many local councils. It’s quite tricky to campaign alongside people when you’re simultaneously campaigning against them. But, even so, local ‘In’ campaigners are already starting to do sterling work at street-stalls, leafleting and suchlike; things should get better from 6 May onwards. Jackie Ashley’s roll-call of Labour politicians who are failing to make the case for an alternative to Brexit seemed strangely familiar. Weren’t Chuka Umunna, Rachel Reeves, Tristram Hunt, Liz Kendall, Hilary Benn and Alan Johnson all leading players in the team that also failed to make the case for any real alternative to the Tories’ austerity and cuts policies in the last parliament? And aren’t they now the media-friendly group who’ve been elbowed out of their dominance of the  party by the immoderate Corbynistas? And aren’t these two things maybe in some way connected?</content>
<class_name>EU referendum,European Union,Conservatives,Labour,David Cameron,Boris Johnson,Jeremy Corbyn,Austerity,Trade unions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:18:08+0100</date>
<title>Tory leadership struggle takes a grip on the EU debate</title>
<content>mmar Abo Bakr came for the revolution, and stayed for the graffiti. On 25 January 2011, the fine art professor was sitting at home in Luxor when he saw YouTube videos of protests gathering in Tahrir Square. Two hours later, he was on the train to Cairo to join them. As those demonstrations wore on, he picked up a spray can.“Back then, I just did simple things, like anyone would make – spraying messages on the wall,” he says. “I liked how the walls were like a newspaper; people wrote things like, ‘Don’t go down this street, there are  [plainclothes thugs] down here’.”That November, Abo Bakr joined a sea of , trying to reach the interior ministry. The central security forces fought back with unprecedented new tactics: “non-lethal” crowd control,  and teargas, that proved lethal after all. By early December, 40 protesters were dead, and many more had been blinded by birdshot.Abo Bakr responded with a mural on the same street, portraying the blinded protesters. It was the first of his many large-scale graffiti murals, and the wall on which he painted it – owned by the American University in Cairo (AUC) – was becoming the most iconic graffiti wall in the city. The murals acted as an evolving visual commentary on Egypt’s revolution: the faces of Field Marshal Tantawi and Hosni Mubarak merging; a parade of martyrs as angels and corpses; pharaonic armies of women deposing mythical oppressors; a boy eating street food with tears in his eyes.Many places in Cairo are home to revolutionary graffiti art; many others have become synonymous with revolutionary conflict. What makes Mohamed Mahmoud street unique is that it has become both.Now half of the wall is gone. A few months ago, workmen began knocking a hole in the wall, sending social media into a flurry of commentary and reprobation. In November, AUC confirmed that they planned to demolish at least 40% of the wall in order to tear down the derelict building behind it.In fact, downtown Cairo is getting a general makeover. Authorities are repainting building facades and have installed a triumphant new monument in Tahrir Square, watched over by multiple CCTV cameras. The city’s revolutionary graffiti art, however, doesn’t fit with the beautification plan.In 2013, the former armed forces chief Abdel Fattah El-Sisi (now president) forced through an . Many graffiti artists have been arrested; the well known Ganzeer opted to . This year has already seen repeated assaults on freedom of expression, such as raids and closures of art spaces and publishers, and most recently the . In such a climate, the “cleansing” of downtown and the demolition of graffiti walls dovetail ominously. The AUC wall, in particular, is a masterpiece of complexity, lyricism and ambition. Over a period of 50 days in early 2012, painter Alaa Awad organised the most famous mural of all: a riotous depiction of ancient Egyptian figures engaged in struggle. “My training is in mural painting, not really graffiti,” says Awad. “I decided to translate the sound of the people to the wall.”“They literally started painting throughout the riots,” says writer Soraya Morayef of Abo Bakr and Awad, who has documented the work at her blog .“As soon as there were protests I would drop my things and run to join them,” agrees Abo Bakr. “And everyone was creative. One of the protesters – some guy, he doesn’t call himself an artist – every day he would come and make art with bunches of leaves, spelling out words on the pavement underneath my paintings.”The artists helped humanise an area that during the worst clashes was littered with thrown stones and broken glass. The city’s walls have become complex documents, authored and re-authored like ramshackle Wikipedia pages. No artwork on the wall was ever considered permanent: government employees frequently whitewashed it by morning. “Erase even more, you cowardly regime,” Abo Bakr wrote on a wall in a message to the whitewashers. “Erase and I will draw again.” He even began to play with the censorship, painting over his own murals. At one point, when Islamists were dominating Tahrir Square and public discourse in general, he painted Qur’anic verses berating the sins of pride, power-seeking and hypocrisy – embarrassing the Islamists with the very texts they claim for their own. Despite the understanding that graffiti is by nature a transient artform, there is nevertheless a sense among the wall’s supporters that the university has gained immense cultural capital from the wall, through conferences and publications, without being willing to seriously protect its artistic or revolutionary meaning. Above all, people are angry that the decision to destroy it was poorly communicated and involved no consultation.The university says the science building – set behind the wall, and facing on to Tahrir Square – is derelict, and that redevelopment plans, made “in the framework of the plan of the Egyptian government to develop and renovate the area of Tahrir Square,” would turn the site into a garden or a cultural centre. (Different press releases make different claims.) Former university president Lisa Anderson said it was “highly unlikely” that the wall would be preserved in its entirety.At a conference on that very campus entitled Creative Cities: Re-framing Downtown, graffiti artist El Teneen distributed a version of the event’s poster, overlaid with the phrase: “How creative is taking down revolutionary graffiti walls?”“AUC owns the wall, we don’t,” he says. “And if they say it must be demolished, well, that is their business. But if they are hosting ‘creative cities’ conferences in the same place they are going to knock down revolutionary artwork, I needed to say something.” Indeed, the issue was raised during the conference.“The wall is no less than a documentation of the revolution,” says Dr Bahia Shehab, director of the graphic design major at AUC, and a graffiti artist herself. “But many of us are just moving on and doing things elsewhere. Graffiti is always an ongoing story, I don’t see it as the end of anything. I think what is happening is a purely practical measure.” There are no plans within the arts department to challenge the decision. The university’s archivists say they have documented the works, and promise an exhibition at an unspecified moment in the future. One unimpressed activist, Wael Eskandar, responded in a Facebook discussion: “Let’s take photos of the drawings inside [Egypt’s] temples and then take them down and do an exhibition.”The remark raises the question of what forms of culture count as “real” Egyptian heritage. The Cairo Heritage Preservation Unit was not available after repeated requests to comment. In the silence, many assume that graffiti doesn’t count – and that “cleaning” it up is ideological. “Several episodes of ‘cleansing’ downtown of undesirable elements [have] served to demonstrate the new regime’s attempts to impose its own order,” said modern historian Lucie Ryzova at a recent conference. “These actions targeted two demographics … most associated with ‘polluting’ Cairo’s city centre: street vendors and revolutionary activists.” Whether the wall’s lack of heritage status is a deliberate government strategy, AUC sociologist Mona Abaza, who has written extensively about the graffiti, says it certainly serves their political interests. “The cleanup of downtown is about giving a sense of order in post-January 2011 Cairo,” she says. “All of us are in denial. Tahrir is over, and the graffiti is part of it. We had four years of trauma – killings and euphoria – but humans need normalcy. And the normalcy is this order.”“This wall is the last standing evidence that a revolution took place,” argues Morayef. “In terms of our national memory and our recent history, they are damaging something that we thought would remain one of the tangible icons. If you go to Tahrir now, it’s as if nothing ever happened.”</content>
<class_name>Street art,Protest,Egypt,Middle East and North Africa,Africa,Art,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T13:30:09+0000</date>
<title>'Erase and I will draw again': the struggle behind Cairo's revolutionary graffiti wall</title>
<content>our times a year, the Japanese designer Rei Kawakubo flies to Paris from Tokyo to show her men’s and women’s  collections. In June this year she was in town for men’s fashion week, which was staged in a dilapidated mansion at 7 rue Meyerbeer. She never takes a bow at the finale. In fact she rarely gives interviews and hasn’t been professionally photographed since 2005. While she avoids publicity, she does meet the buyers who come to order from the collection each season. So we meet at the Comme des Garçons showroom at Place Vendôme, where she paces calmly, dressed in her trademark black, while staff in military-inspired garb accessorised with polka-dot shoes buzz around her.Eleven mannequins, lined up like , display her most recent Comme des Garçons Homme Plus menswear collection, Broken Tailoring. They are adorned with neon-yellow hairpieces by stylist Julien d’Ys. The clothes include a tailored men’s blazer with a motif of golfers ripped three-quarters of the way down the back and paired with unfitted shorts. There’s a horizontally pinstriped tailored jacket obfuscated with metal buttons, shown with trousers which have one leg shorter than the other. Another pinstriped blazer has a ripped back and elbows so the shirt underneath shows through.“The primary objective of this collection is not specifically for kids to wear the clothes as streetwear, but to comment on the current state of menswear, which is easy, casual and based on sports. I see the collection as an addition to the discussion on menswear,” explains Kawakubo, “where tailoring is broken down to add value to it. I want to show people that tailoring has value, which I don’t see any more in men’s fashion.”We head to her office at the back of the showroom with her husband, Adrian Joffe, who is president of Comme des Garçons International and also acts as her translator. The glass-walled office is elevated so you can look down on the showroom, the universe Kawakubo has created. Her influence is such that it’s fair to say she has forever changed the way clothes are viewed, worn and bought. Usually when a designer challenges everyday ideas as radically as Kawakubo, it’s a commercial liability. But she is as much a businesswoman as she is a creative. “The first thing you need in order to make a business viable is to preserve a cash flow. I made sure I didn’t have any financial backing or support,” says Kawakubo. “I was always very careful to work within my means – I never departed from that. I was adamant to never carry debt.”The brand has 230 storefronts and franchise outlets outside Japan, 17 unique brands under the Comme des Garçons brand, three flagship locations in New York, Paris and Tokyo, and an annual turnover of $250m. She has a fervent fanbase, not only among customers but also other designers. Karl Lagerfeld, Nicolas Ghesquière, creative director of Louis Vuitton, and Céline creative director Phoebe Philo are fans, as is Marc Jacobs, who wears her skirts for men. Jacobs has said he likes Kawakubo’s clothes because “it’s not about dressing for other people. It’s not about buying clothes to attract or seduce. It feels like a gift you’re giving yourself.”For someone who has such singular ideas, Kawakubo has excelled at collaborating and diversifying over the years. She has nurtured the talent of her protégés, allowing them to develop labels of their own. Since his debut in 1992, her ex-pattern cutter Junya Watanabe has become one of the fashion world’s most innovative and influential designers. And in 2012 she launched a new collection by another of her former pattern cutters, Kei Ninomiya, called .In 2009, Kawakubo even released a one-off bag collection called  in collaboration with Apple Corporation. She has collaborated with Mick Jagger, Cindy Sherman and Ai WeiWei. Last year she teamed up with Pharrell Williams to create the scent Girl. “Although I do not believe in fame,” she says, “what it brings me is the fact that I can ask someone to work with me and they do not say no.” Her fragrance business, begun in 1994, is booming.She’s a genius at retail as well as design. She started the trend of the guerilla or pop-up shops that have proliferated over the past decade, and she asked architects Future Systems to collaborate on a Comme Des Garçons store in New York in 1998, three years before Miuccia Prada created a similar temple to fashion with Rem Koolhaas in the city. But her biggest innovation has been the Dover Street Markets, fashion department stores which now have shops in London, New York, Beijing and Tokyo. They act as galleries as much as shops, curating the new and the wonderful names of fashion. Dover Street Market’s shop windows have become the ultimate destination for any designer, whether new or established. This week the London windows will be handed over to the new designer at Gucci, . Rei Kawakubo’s blessing is worth more to Gucci than a hundred celebrity endorsements.“I wanted to present high fashion in a store reminiscent of a street market,” she says. “The Dover Street Markets bring brands of all disciplines together to sell their products in an open atmosphere that, most importantly, incites creativity.” They are, along with the Comme des Garçons stores, usually located in areas off the beaten track. Next year, the original Dover Street Market will move from the office block it took over in genteel Dover Street in Mayfair in 2004 to a bigger site in the grand old Burberry store on Haymarket.Rei Kawakubo’s designs have always been personal, driven by a sense of independence. Her father was a university administrator and her mother a teacher. After studying history of aesthetics at Keio University in the 60s, she left home and found work in the advertising department of textile manufacturer Ashai Kasei. The job included looking for props and costumes and eventually she started designing those she couldn’t find. She finally went freelance as a stylist and designer in 1967. “The very first thing I wanted to do when I started this was to make a living, be independent and have a job. But I could never find clothes that I wanted to wear, so I decided to make them myself.’Without any formal fashion training, she launched Comme des Garçons in 1969, with the first boutique opening in Tokyo’s Minami-Aoyama district in 1973. From the beginning she had unorthodox ways of working. “I attempted a different approach to the typical clothing storefront, which was usually adorned with mannequins dressed in the latest collections for everyone to see, clothes on view for the masses to lust over. The front display windows of the first boutique in Aoyama were often kept vacant while the clothes remained in the back room of the shop. I would make the clothes, bring them to the boutique and interact with clients daily. There were no mirrors in the boutique to emphasise the notion that one should buy clothes because of how they make you feel, not how they make you look.”Kawakubo has said that she just likes the sound of the words that make her company’s name, but the spirit of “like boys” chimed with women’s liberation in the 60s and 70s, and her designs have always challenged traditional ideas of femininity. “I’ve always been against people who told me what to do,” she says. She identified with the punk movement in London in the late 70s and visited the city twice in the early 80s. When she first showed in Paris in 1981, fashion was dominated by the high glamour of Gianni Versace and Thierry Mugler.  and  debuted on American TV that year and Human League was the bestselling band in the UK. This was the world into which Kawakubo sent that first collection of black, shapeless garments with asymmetric hems, odd flaps, laddered knits and shredded fabric. It was a signature style that had earned her fans at home the nickname Karasu – “the crows” – by the Japanese press. “I built my work from within instead of satisfying a demand for sexualised and ostentatious clothing,” she says.But the collection was dismissed by critics as “ragged chic”. It was also attacked on a political level, labelled “Hiroshima chic” or “post atomic”. Kawakubo says her work was misunderstood. “Although I never went hungry I remember well the extreme poverty and devastation of those times. But this had no bearing on my work whatsoever. These critics had it all wrong. Being born in Japan was an accident. There is no direct correlation to my work. Growing up in postwar Japan has made me the person I am, but it is not why I do the work I do. It is a very personal thing – everything comes from inside.”Personal it may be, but Kawakubo has constantly pushed against preconceived ideas of how women should dress. Other notable shows over the years include 1997’s Dress Meets Body, Body Meets Dress featuring figure-hugging gingham clothes accessorised with deforming padded humps (Adrian Joffe has said this collection was inspired “by Rei’s anger at seeing a Gap shop window filled with banal black clothes”); 2005’s The Broken Bride, with its geisha make-up and antique veils; and the 2012 collection in which she tried to make her collection look two dimensional. The models walked the runway in silence. In an interview around the time of the 2D collection she complained about the state of fashion: “There is a kind of burnout – people just want cheap fast clothes and are happy to look like everyone else. That enthusiasm and passionate anger for change and rattling the status quo is weakening.”But season after season, Kawakubo can be relied upon to produce collections that are consistent in their ability to surprise her audience. Her collections are often difficult to understand – sometimes they are almost comical (and Kawakubo does have a deadpan sense of humour).Her latest collection is called Ceremony of Separation. For her catwalk presentation, a series of 18 faceless models walked the catwalk clad in what appeared to be bundles of duvets, parcels of laundry tied up in pillowcases, black lace tied up together to form a human mountain, an oversized three-tiered black-lace Victorian mourning shroud enveloping the model. Critics linked the sombre, melancholic collection to the displacement of war-torn peoples. But for Kawakubo, the show “had nothing to do with politics or wars. It’s about something deeper, some horror solidly anchored in me, in us. The impetus was also about the sense of loss, someone dear leaving, but also the ceremonial ritual accompanying this departure that could make things bearable. There is very little creation without despair.”After the show there was speculation that it might have been Kawakubo’s final collection. “Word comes that… this time it has taken so much out of her to produce the latest collection, there really might not be another one,” reported . However, she tells me she is not thinking of retiring any time soon. She has always talked about how each collection is “an exercise in suffering”, that no idea can ever be used twice.And, at 72, she is still at the helm of her company, never compromising and always refusing outside investments. “There is no difference between creation and business,” she says. “A good collection doesn’t necessarily mean a prosperous business. The business aspect of a company has to be creative, innovative, transformative, it has to espouse the creative in total osmosis. It is just as important as a piece of new tailoring in the sense that one is an extension of the other, but I see it as a whole. This is a fragile equilibrium and why I refused to bring a financial backer into the company.”It’s a path even more at odds with the world of fashion – a landscape now dominated by conglomerates such as LVMH and Kering, with their focus on spreadsheets and bottom lines – than when she started more than 50 years ago. Will the search for the next new retail concept, the next new design, ever feel too much? Does she ever feel enslaved to the search for the new? Kawakubo thinks for a moment and then replies: “You can’t be enslaved to something you choose.”</content>
<class_name>Rei Kawakubo,Retail industry,</class_name>
<date>2015-09-20T09:00:04+0100</date>
<title>Rei Kawakubo’s radical chic</title>
<content>Nearly 200  hospital service workers will go out on strike on Monday, in a dispute which its organisers say highlights the increasingly difficult predicament of low-paid people in the capital, and problems particularly faced by women and migrant workers.Those on strike work as cleaners and domestic staff at four mental health facilities run by the South London and Maudsley Trust: the Maudsley hospital in Camberwell, the Bethlem Royal hospital in Beckenham, the Lambeth hospital, and the Ladywell Unit at Lewisham hospital. But they are employed by Aramark, a multinational company based in the USA that also specialises in selling food and drink at American sports events.Many of Aramark’s London hospital employees are paid £7.38 an hour, more than £2 below the London living wage set by the Greater London Authority. The workers on this pay rate also have restricted entitlements to sick pay and overtime.The strikers are calling for changes to those conditions, and a new minimum hourly rate of £10. The GMB union has called the strike after weeks of negotiations with the company failed to result in a resolution. The stoppage will last 24 hours and end at 6am on Tuesday. The Guardian has been following the dispute for the last month, as part of a new phase of its video series Most of the Aramark employees who have spoken about the strike and their experiences at work have insisted on remaining anonymous. The full-time GMB organiser in charge of the stoppage is Nadine Houghton, 31. “There’s a small proportion of the people who are striking who have been union members for a number of years,” she said. “But the vast majority have not been in a union, and they’ve never been on strike before.”Houghton put the proportion of strikers who are women at around 90%. “And they’re predominantly migrant workers, from various African countries, South American countries … and there’s a couple of Eastern European workers.”Houghton said that the workers involved in the strike are effectively divided into two tiers. Those whose began their jobs under a previous contractor have seen their pay rate rise by £1.40 over the past nine years to £7.48 an hour plus £2.06 London weighting, but they still have more generous terms than workers who have joined since Aramark became the contractor.Most of this latter group’s hourly rate is £7.38, there is no additional payment to reflect London living costs and they are entitled to 10 days sick pay a year, which only applies after the first three days of illness. “And they don’t get any enhancements for working nights, or weekends, or anything like that,” Houghton added. The Guardian has spoken to workers whose monthly travel costs alone are £120.totalled $387m (£267m), on turnover of $14.3bn.The company has so far made the workers two offers. The first would award them an extra 5% of the company’s pay costs, to be distributed as the employees wanted. “We could have 1% for the higher-paid members and 4% for the lower-paid members, or split it evenly,” said Houghton. This proposal was rejected, as was an offer of improved sick pay terms, and a 2.5% pay rise for the higher-paid staff, with 5% for those on the lower-tier - which amounted to around an extra 40p an hour.The GMB’s strike ballot opened around four weeks ago. The turnout was 51%, and 97% of respondents voted in favour of strike action, which means the action would clear new requirements for strike actions in the government’s controversial trade union bill, currently making its way through parliament.As the strike date has approached, the GMB has made representations to Aramark about what it claims is victimisation of its members. Echoing claims the Guardian has heard from Aramark employees, the union has cited allegations that supervisors have told workers that overtime payments will be withdrawn if they go on strike, and made false claims about workers’ eligibility to participate.The Guardian put these allegations to Aramark via its PR representatives, in addition to questions about the company’s unwillingness to meet its employees’ demands on pay and conditions.A statement from the company, which is based in Philadelphia, did not address these points. It said: “Aramark is committed to treating all of its employees with respect and dignity. That includes offering competitive wages. It is disappointing that the GMB rejected our fair and comprehensive offer and that some members plan to exercise their right to action in the form of a strike. We remain intent on reaching a mutually agreed resolution … We regret in advance any inconvenience that may arise as a result of this action by the GMB.”A spokesperson for the South London and Maudsley  Trust said that “it is not for the trust to take a position” on the strike. They said that staff who were not taking part would “continue to provide essential services on Monday – such as meal services and the cleaning of patient bathrooms.”The GMB says it is prepared for more strikes if necessary. “If the company don’t come back with an improved offer than our members can accept, we’ll obviously look at escalating the action,” said Nadine Houghton. “And that’ll perhaps mean looking at a two or three-day strike in the near future. But a lot of that will rest on how much money we can raise for a strike fund.”She went on: “Where there’s the will for union to organizers workers in these sorts of industries, it can be done. There’s something fundamentally righteous about this. We’re told that the working class is on its knees and apathetic. What this shows is that there’s a fightback still there. It gives you hope in our movement. We can still achieve things.”</content>
<class_name>NHS,Trade unions,Healthcare industry,Health,London,Living wage,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-21T06:00:00+0000</date>
<title>Hospital cleaners stage one-day strike for London living wage</title>
<content>RIP chicks and totes. If the devil is in the detail – and in fashion it often is – then the devil is a weird animal placed nonsensically in a spring fashion shoot. Joeys, pigeons, flamingos, leopards – you name it, if it’s furry and undomesticated, it’s probably in a photoshoot, on a magazine cover or printed on a blouse this season. What do a baby kangaroo and a rat with wings tell us about spring fashion?“I want to be able to have my family and have this normalcy and go see a play and not have the audience watching me watch the play,” says actor Jessica Chastain, another A-lister chasing the elusive train of normalcy by holding a baby kangaroo on the cover of a magazine. The natural makeup says one thing – pared-back, intimate, the “real me”. But why the joey? For one, kangaroos are good at fighting, and Chastain is quite vocal about gender inequality in the magazine interview; they are also family creatures (see the quote above); and terrestrial kangaroos are vegetarian, like Chastain. Plus, the longer you look at it, the more the two faces seem to merge. It’s quite hypnotic, really. So, you see, the joey makes absolute sense.Gucci loves a weird animal, and a weird setting. Indeed, compared to last season’s campaign – models on skateboards in Berlin’s Hauptbahnhof station holding peacocks – “flamingos in a conservatory” is a relatively staid concept. But Gucci (by which we mean new Gucci, ) leans towards the kitsch and fantastical. Photographed and directed by Glen Luchford, who is famous for his exotic and cinematic imagery, it makes for an arresting (Instagrammable) image, something Gucci has down pat.Other thoughts on the flamingos: according to SeaWorld, they have well-developed colour perception. Conversely, the models in this campaign appear to be visually impaired, so there’s a cheeky bit of role reversal. Maybe we are the flamingos looking at the models? Maybe the models are in a metaphorical zoo? Or maybe it’s as simple as Gucci likes birds. It’s anyone’s guess.Not strictly true – one shoot, in , sees Kris Jenner in a circus tent with a massive lion in the background – but it has been a while since this arm of the big cat family has been properly represented in fashion. Here they are, though, printed on Kate Moss’s pyjamas for Equipment, and here is a model, lying on a tree like a leopard, in Marni’s spring campaign. Does the Equipment campaign buy into the adage that a leopard can’t change its spots (ie pyjamas will always be pyjamas)? Is this model lying in a tree like a leopard because she’s tired of life, fashion and the ground? Or is it all of those reasons? All good, all food for thought.Finally, a concept we can get on board with: here are lots of models and non-models like Jourdan Dunn (model, British) and  (a writer, once based in London). And here are some dalmatians (English literature’s favourite dog) and pigeons (our favourite bird). Dogs are a perennial in ad campaigns, but the pigeons? Well, US designer Kate Spade recently opened her flagship store in London; the obvious answer is that she’s trying to speak to us, the British public, about how on board she is with Britishness. The less obvious (but more likely answer) is that their dirty wings match fashion illustrator Robert W Richards’s tie. Still, quite fun.</content>
<class_name>Advertising,Fashion industry,Fashion photography,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:59:41+0100</date>
<title>My fashion and other animals: why flamingos and leopards are in this spring</title>
<content>With  set to start next week, it’s not uncommon for supermarket chains to lay out special spreads in the lead-up to the holy month of fasting, briefly converting what was once the “world foods” aisle into a haven of two-for-one bottles of Rubicon and half-price chapatti flour. But increasingly it’s not just supermarkets cashing in on the so called “Ramadan rush”; fashion is courting the Muslim pound, too.Every summer, an estimated 50,000 visitors swap the blazing heat of Gulf states for the relative cool of London, flocking to shops as diverse as Harrods, Primark and Marks & Spencer in the process. Ramadan is based on a lunar calendar, so the dates change every year, and for the past few years that summer shopping season has coincided with Ramadan. Shopping centres have been keen to cash in on this lucky coincidence: Selfridges has extended opening hours before and during Ramadan; Westfield London has prayer rooms and Arabic-speaking concierges, and sells gift cards specifically for Eid, the festival that marks the end of Ramadan. Earlier this month,  of long, flowing gowns and wide-leg trousers which a representative for the brand described as a collection “seeking alternatives to replace the traditional abayas and chadors with creative designs”. (Oddly, in the UK, the collection is called .) Last year, DKNY launched a Ramadan collection – a full range, featuring duster coats, leather jackets and silk jogging bottoms – while, next month, Armani will release a box of Ramadan chocolates.While most British Muslims can relate to having to buy a few essentials before Ramadan – dates, new hijabs, a sleek new abaya – for the vast majority of us, who are, to say the least, very unlikely to have a Harrods Rewards card, the idea of going on a vast Ramadan shopping spree is an alien concept. If anything, the last few days of Ramadan, in the lead-up to Eid, is probably when we spend more money hunting for gifts and an outfit for the celebrations.The average Gulf shopper, on the other hand, spends £152 per transaction, according to a 2014 study by Worldpay, a company that processes card payments. Qatari shoppers spend most of all, an average £288.17 per trip to the till. In comparison, European visitors tend to spend £49. Gordon Clark, UK country manager of travel shopping consultancy Global Blue, predicts even higher spending in 2015: “Last year, spend by Arabic shoppers was up 43% for the period,” he says, “and as retailers and hotels improve their services to accommodate them, by bringing in Arabic-speaking staff and learning their culture’s customs, the UK is becoming an increasingly appealing shopping destination for them and we expect spend growth to remain strong.”Interestingly, even without explicit “Muslim-friendly” branding, it’s a doddle to shop for “modest” looks on the high street these days. Long tunics, thin long duster coats and dresses over trousers are all the rage in bargain high-street shops such as New Look and Monki. Brand analysts have yet to confirm whether it’s a trend rooted in fickle Parisian fashion houses (understated, loose, long lines are, after all, very Céline) or the effect of the much-maligned . Either way, with this trend, everybody wins. Muslim style bloggers are expanding, too (one, Dina Tokio, recently collaborated on a scarf collection with Liberty), as is Muslim beauty, with a rise in halal beauty products such as water-permeable and wash-off nail polishes.Still, you’d have to be daft to ignore the ridiculous contrast between the reception afforded to wealthy Gulf Muslims – ; their spending habits dissected once a year by the business press and hailed as overwhelmingly positive – and the media coverage afforded to British Muslims with less extravagant incomes. The most high-profile analysis of our spending habits in recent months was the proclamation from top Muslim cop Mak Chishty that those who  (due to a perception that the store is Jewish-owned).With the Muslim population of the UK at 4.4% according to the last census, and set to rise, it’s surely only a matter of time before more fashion brands reach out to British Muslims as well as our guests from the Gulf. Who knows, maybe in 10 years time American Apparel will be awash with brightly coloured abayas.</content>
<class_name>Ramadan,Retail industry,Islam,Religion,Eid al-Fitr,Festivals,</class_name>
<date>2015-06-12T12:05:44+0100</date>
<title>How fashion is courting the Muslim pound</title>
<content>art of me loves these Fendi eyes because it looks like you’re showing your workings. Like you’ve taken a marker pen to your face to make a note of where to colour in. Mainly though, I love the art of it – a big, black, audacious line, mimicking the line of the eye, shadowing the line of the brow. It’s more like life drawing than prettifying – bold and gestural, a sense of theatre. Also, another way to enjoy eyeliner, which is fairly “hooray” in itself. £36,   £19,   £42,   £19,  (from May)  £9,   £17,   £21, </content>
<class_name>Beauty,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-20T05:59:31+0000</date>
<title>The draw on graphic eyes</title>
<content>An unaccompanied eight-year-old boy has been held at Paris’s main airport for more than a week after trying to enter  with false identity papers.Children’s rights campaigners have accused the French authorities of breaking international child protection laws by refusing to let the youngster join relatives in France.The boy, who has not been named, was put on a plane to Paris from the  Islands in the Indian Ocean, off the coast of south-east Africa, more than a week ago by his mother who, according to French and African media, wanted him to have a better life.Carrying just a Spiderman backpack, he was arrested on arriving at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle airport on 21 March and detained in an airport holding area for those suspected of trying to enter the country illegally, after reportedly producing a French passport in his cousin’s name.The French appeal court decided he must be held in the waiting area for his own protection. But Catherine Daoud, a child protection lawyer, told French radio: “The imprisoning of children in the [airport] waiting area, especially young children like this, is against the international convention on child protection signed and ratified by France.” She added: “Sadly, his is not an unique case. It’s shocking to see a young kid stuck in the same basket as the adults and with the police … for the child it’s a prison.“What shocks us is that he is shut in. Why is he shut in? We’re talking about a place with bars, it’s no place for a child.”The French interior ministry said on Wednesday that the boy’s mother had asked for the child to be returned to her. The authorities were trying to organise for someone to accompany him back to Comoros, but the process had been delayed because of the Easter holiday, a ministry spokesman told the Guardian.“The boy arrived with a borrowed passport and was in an irregular situation in French territory,” she said. “This was confirmed by the police and he was placed in the waiting area. The judge for liberty and detention decided it was in the boy’s best interest to keep him in the waiting zone until inquiries could be made.“The French authorities made contact with his family and his mother said she wanted to take this young boy back. “On 25 March, the court of appeal decided he should remain in the waiting zone until he could be returned.”She added: “It’s not for the ministry to question legal decisions. Obviously he is being correctly treated and is with someone from the Red Cross [at the airport]. “We want this child to be returned to his country of origin as his mother has requested, but accompanied this time.”Daoud said 259 lone minors had been kept in the holding area in 2014. Like adults arriving in France without papers, they can be held for up to 20 days before being admitted or deported. Isabelle Thieuleux of the organisation(A Child’s Voice) was at the court hearing. “We were told the French administration had to be given time to organise the boy’s return to Comoros,” Thieuleux said.“He left the hearing accompanied by two police officers. His bag was almost bigger than him, he was just a little thing. “There’s no justification for imprisoning an eight-year-old child who has arrived in the country, and even less for the motive of his own protection. Where’s the protection for a child in such a place?”</content>
<class_name>France,Paris,Air transport,Comoros,Africa,Europe,Child protection,Children,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T17:38:55+0100</date>
<title>Boy of eight held at Paris airport for more than a week</title>
<content>Before I go out, I like having an afternoon watching TV and loads of time to get ready, but quite often I’ll end up not going out because I really like having time to myself.When I am on tour, I use a stylist called Dean Bright but, going out-wise, I dress down. My favourite outfit is my skinhead jeans (which are quite tight and look like they’ve had bleach thrown over them), with a T-shirt and jumper or nice jacket, trainers or shoes. If I find shoes that I really love, I wear them all the time. I have had one pair of brown leather lace-ups that I bought in Hamburg 30 years ago. I had them resoled and they look almost brand new.Two or three days before a night out, I save my shave and let my beard grow. On the night, I have a bath and give my face an exfoliating scrub. Then I’ll shave and my face will be nice and smooth. I sometimes use compact powder and I put concealer under my eyes. I first had my eye bags done when I was 40 (I am 51 now) and I had a chin tuck. The year before last I had my eye bags done again – they suck a bit of fat from your belly and put it in under your eyes to fill them out. It really works. I feel happy now. I look quite good in my own skin. I don’t want to do too much and start looking too ridiculous.I’ve still got hair but it’s getting thinner. Every time I go to the hairdresser they say, “Oh you should use this and that” but I just towel-dry it and comb it over. I might have to start using a bit of gel to thicken it up a bit. I have highlights and I use  each time. I actually put it on hair elsewhere on my body, too, as it works quite well!’s latest album, Torsten  now.</content>
<class_name>Beauty,Erasure,Pop and rock,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Andy Bell, musician: 'I first had my eye bags done when I was 40'</title>
<content>hey’re having a laugh, aren’t they?” Nigel Legge is a fisherman based in Cadgwith, Cornwall. , most recently seen in , which he makes and sells from his shed behind the harbour. But, weather allowing, he is on his boat, Razorbill, from around 5am until 3pm, catching mackerel, lobsters, that sort of thing. In his smock and jersey, he’s also the walking embodiment of the most stealth menswear trend around: fishermen. “The thing is, when you’re out at sea you don’t care what you look like. Which is just as well. It’s no place for fashion.”In menswear, the time has come for hip young men to take stock. What is cool? What is hip?  Not long ago, there was a look. In its most basic form, it was best described as utilitarian workwear (flannel shirts, slim-fitting jeans, expensive leather boots). But in recent years, “hipster” has become nebulous as an adjective and derided as a social group. Vice declared ; the word prompts shudders on the Guardian fashion desk. Naturally, that sentiment has ruined hipster fashion. It’s now impossible to wear a checked shirt without looking like a caricature.But salvation is on the horizon. And living proof that fashion is a chronic pilferer, it’s recently turned to recycling working-class uniforms. The recently coined  (a twist on lumberjacks so as to avoid confusion with the real thing, the key proponents are flannel shirts and selvedge jeans) is a case in point. Up next, it’s fishermen.On the high street, Topman now sells four types of “fishermen jumpers”. Asos also has a whole section dedicated to  – ostensibly beanies with a roll. This sounds like your classic fashion gimmick, except that the trend has also gone high-end ( costs more than £1,000 – in the sale) and even into womenswear, most notably on  (jeans with upturned hems that look like boots – RRP £595). Much of this trend can be traced to Scandinavia, where brands including Norse Projects, Our Legacy and Soul Lands sell functional fisherman clothing, much of which you can buy on luxury shopping site Matches Fashion and is aimed squarely at moneyed millennials. Mr Porter, meanwhile, stocks real Angler boots by Yuketen. are more dubiously sourced (they are made from Japanese selvedge Oxford cloth), but fishermen trousers they are. The trend looks set to segue into autumn, too – wide-legged trousers were spotted everywhere on the menswear catwalks from Christopher Raeburn to Topman Design.In womenswear, Vogue . Real Aran knits took their name from the Aran Islands off the west coast of Ireland where, traditionally, they were knitted by the wives of fishermen. The natural lanolin that comes from wool makes them waterproof. They have been largely phased out because they take a time to dry – a friend whose father still fishes off the south coast says her childhood was marred by the smell of mackerel in the house: “Those knits really hold the smell of fish.” Variations are now available at Jigsaw, Isabel Marant and Michael Kors. Another mainstay on Vogue’s shopping pages is Arthur Beale, a one-time rope supplier that has morphed into haute supplier of Breton tops, oilskins and smocks.The merging of workwear with fashion is not new, as Volker Ketteniss, head of menswear at trend forecasters WGSN, explains: “Fishermen’s knits have become perennial items, and, like Breton stripes and Fair Isle patterns, they are pretty much always around in the autumn/winter season.” But, he continues: “There is a strong trend for fabric textures and classic menswear materials at the moment that is driving the creative reinvention of these perennial items.” Adrian Clark, style director at Shortlist, concurs: “My big prediction for [next season] is for new and experimental ways with cable knit.”But it is timely – trad menswear (which has become the uniform of new tribes, like the ,  and kids with money) is in dire need of a new twist, a rebranding or at least a new word to describe it. A few years ago, this sort of utilitarian, practical clothing was occasionally described as “hipster-style” on shopping sites, which automatically rendered it uncool.Real fishermen actually wear French stuff. Nigel, John Trewin and Danny Phillips all live and work in Cadgwith, on the south-east of the Lizard peninsula, a few miles from the most southern point in mainland Britain. It’s a seductive lifestyle, and it’s little wonder that graphic designers in Leyton want to buy into it. “The French make the best gear, they’ve got it sussed,” explains John. So what do they make of urban lads co-opting their look? “I can’t understand it,” says John. “We don’t think about what we’re wearing. It’s just got to be right for the job.”Danny wears Norwegian fisherman jumpers (not dissimilar to Isabel Marant), a smock for warmth, and “a little neckerchief to keep the cold out”. John prefers “something wool that’s a bit tighter”, oilskins and a small hat. “We call these buffers because they sort of slip over your ears.” Nigel prefers “a Guernsey or a Jersey top. That keeps the damp out. Leggings, because damp jeans chafe when they get wet. One crack in your leggings and it’s all over.” They buy most of it from online wholesalers, VAT-free, although French company  and Seasalt are their go-to brands. The Guy Cotten poncho bears a resemblance to ’s windbreakers, a nu-lad favourite except at half the price.So is fisherman a look, or simply chicanery, a tastier word for hipster? Both groups are fond of heritage products, which generally have purpose and are built to last, handy whether you’re on a boat for nine hours or sitting in an unheated warehouse space. And fashion is parasitic by nature. It loves to take a uniform, chop it up and reconstitute it, like ham, into something new. As Luke O’Neil, a contributing editor at Esquire explains, the look has long been drawn from “the signifiers of working class and labourers for inspiration”; if the most recent incarnation was 2014’s “lumbersexuals”, by rights fisherman are the “next logical conclusion”.Fashion historian Amber Butchart thinks the fetishisation of workwear is a relatively recent phenomenon: “As we reach a stage where fewer people earn a living from manual labour, we begin to romanticise agricultural life from our urban surroundings. We’ve seen this since the turn of the millennium across areas such as Brooklyn, Dalston, Kreuzberg – from lumberjacks to truckers, working clothing takes on a new kind of purity.”If this feels patronising, that’s because it is: “Yes, this completely romanticises what was an incredibly dangerous, back-breaking and even life-threatening job.”Still, despite the return to practicality, the leap from fishermen to fashion isn’t that outlandish: “Fishermen have always been pretty stylish,” says Butchart. “In the 1950s and 60s, fisher lads around the coast in towns such as Hull and Lowestoft would compete with each other to have the most flamboyant suits on shore. They would design them and get them made up by local tailors, often choosing bright fabrics or checks from the women’s fabric catalogues.”As trends go, this one is chocka with parody, which Cadgwith’s fishermen aren’t thrilled about. I explain it’s less about appropriation, more about appreciation. They laugh. Fashion has yet to come up with a natty lumbersexual-esque name for this – but give it time. “To be fair, they do shrink when they get wet so it’s not far off.” “They keep your face warm, I suppose there’s that.”“I can’t really tell what he’s saying. I could probably get into it, though, with a bit of time.” “Fine, yeah, but how do you dance to this, that’s what I want to know.” “They’re not unlike the buffers we wear. Bit daft wearing them like that, though.” “Beards, yeah, they suit some people. Don’t see the problem with them.”“Yes I could listen to it. Is that a girl or a boy, though?”“Yeah it does sound a bit like Enya. Not for me. I prefer Killers, Paolo Nutini, or AC/DC to be honest.” “Well your ears would be cold. That’s no good is it?” “Think I’ve heard about this. Not new are they, though?” “Not much to it, is there? Mind you, I could dance to it I reckon.” “It’s quite nice. The tune’s nice. Doesn’t really go anywhere that’s all.”</content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-26T07:02:00+0000</date>
<title>Fisherman fashion – making waves in menswear</title>
<content> camel, a biplane and a monster truck convene in the Californian desert. A trio of dalmatians flank Naomi Campbell in a white convertible. Nine models lounge in haute couture in an enchanted forest. A handsome spaceman washes up in his capsule on a hazy beach.Often described as the most influential fashion editor of the past 30 years, US Vogue creative director Grace Coddington has produced some of fashion’s most memorable imagery. Her pictures might be jolly and decadent or moody and mysterious, but they always tell a story – and a sweeping, vivid yarn at that.On Wednesday, Coddington announced that she was stepping down from her role. It sounded, at first, like a subtle shift – the 74-year-old would become creative director-at-large, working on several shoots a year – but the industry’s reaction was seismic. New York Times fashion critic , arguing that the old guard of fashion might finally be making way for a new, more digitally aware culture.As Friedman also pointed out, Coddington’s move was particularly poignant given her status as the living embodiment of the good old days of fashion. Highly recognisable – a shock of orange hair against porcelain skin, the kind of visual branding Elizabeth I would have appreciated – she sketches pictures from the front row while those around her take snaps on their iPhones. She has been central to the industry since the 1960s, first as a model, then as an editor on British and later US Vogue. But what really sets her apart is her determination to create beautiful imagery against all odds, even if it involves batting off commercial concerns or risking the wrath of governments – as in 1976, when she had Jerry Hall pose in a red swimsuit atop a Soviet monument in the USSR, and had to smuggle out the film. In 2009, she became the unlikely star of the Vogue documentary The September Issue, in which she came across as the guardian of artistry in the face of Anna Wintour’s pragmatic commercialism.Historically, sweeping Coddington-style editorials have always been about more than clothes, according to Susanna Brown, photography curator at the Victoria and Albert Museum. Since the first fashion magazine photography, in the 1880s, they have sold a lifestyle and helped shape contemporary culture. During the second world war, says Brown, “the British and American editions of Vogue raised morale with optimistic articles and photographs of practical wartime fashions. Cecil Beaton used the bomb-damaged Inner Temple as the backdrop for an image of a suited model in a defiant pose.”But constructing dreams the Coddington way comes at a price. Hours of manpower are poured into the organisation of such photo shoots; thousands must be spent on flights and accommodation. Even Coddington is not immune to such concerns, says Iain R Webb, former Blitz, Harpers & Queen and Elle fashion editor. “Things were already changing during my time at Elle in the late 1990s,” he says. “Airlines stopped handing out free travel for credits and hotels became less accommodating. Carting a team off to exotic locations was no longer cost effective. Combined with the demand on output – less time, more images – and a growing pressure to please advertisers, the process started to become less creative and more prescriptive. Grace summed it up when she told me, ‘You’d go on a Vogue trip to Africa for two weeks. Now it’s two days and it’s not even Africa - it’s Miami, and you’re trying to make it look like Africa!’”The influence of these grand gestures is hard to quantify, but it is dwarfed by the reach of social media. As recently as the 1990s, such images were the only way many fashion fans would get to see the work of their favourite designers. Now, they’re one of many channels. One cameraphone snap by Cara Delevingne reaches 25.7 million Instagram users at the touch of a “share” button, while .That said, it is certainly possible for a glossy magazine to reach millions through its photography. In 2014, Kim Kardashian’s Paper magazine cover shoot – in which the reality TV star balanced a champagne glass on her bottom – . Hundreds of millions of people saw the pictures – Kardashian alone has more than 50 million Instagram followers – despite the fact that the magazine’s circulation is just 155,000.US Vogue’s glossy, 20-page fashion editorials, on the other hand, do not really live on the internet. Though a few may be available online, their main home is within the physical pages of the magazine. They offer a mark of difference from the blurry images casually consumed for free on the internet; they help to make fashion magazines escapist paradises suitable for securing high-end advertising. They are designed to be pored over slowly by invested readers, perhaps while sipping red wine in the bath. Only time will tell if such an experience will one day appeal to iPhone-addicted millennials.Among the old guard in the industry, glossy fashion photo shoots remain gravely important. Editors and buyers still discuss them reverentially at fashion shows; photographers and stylists use the cachet of shooting for Vogue to secure commercial jobs. They are a measure of power, creativity and cultural clout; a connection to the rarefied worlds of art and photography.Whether or not Coddington’s move will have a tectonic effect remains to be seen, but it shines a light on the deepening divide between the industry’s priorities and readers’ increasingly digital lives. Publishers should use this moment to work out how to maintain their gravitas while producing content that feels – as Vogue might say of this season’s most fashionable shoe – suitably modern and relevant.Most stylists are interested in one specific look, but Grace has extraordinary range. She can do anything from grunge to couture, she understands the point of view of an incredible variety of photographers, and she does simplicity well, but can also go completely over the top. She does everything to an extraordinary level. She has an astounding imagination and a childlike view of fashion, as though she is seeing everything for the first time. She has also broken much new ground because of her longevity. She was the first person to put a model wearing no makeup on the cover of Vogue in the late 1970s – I was her assistant at the time and we received hundreds of letters, “shocked and outraged from Reading”. I don’t think she is afraid of anything – and the same can’t be said of many fashion editors and stylists today.During both her career as a model and her long tenure as Vogue’s creative director, Grace has been respected for her individualism and her understanding of fashion as an expressive medium. She has collaborated with several generations of photographers, modelling for the likes of Frank Horvat, Norman Parkinson and Jeanloup Sieff in the 1960s. Her past experience as a model brought insight to her work on the other side of the camera, for instance with Guy Bourdin, Barry Lategan and Helmut Newton at British Vogue between 1968 and 87. Since the late 80s at American Vogue she has championed the fantasy of fashion, and collaborated with photographers such as Annie Leibovitz, Steven Klein, Craig McDean, Steven Meisel, Mert & Marcus, David Sims, Bruce Weber – to name just a few. It seems that she has never been driven by an interest in consumerism or fleeting trends. In the transient world of fashion, she’s remained true to her unadulterated creative vision.When you talk to some younger creatives, you sense a slight embarrassment about doing fashion – as though it’s a bit cheap and commercial – but for 50 years, in front of and behind the camera, Grace has delighted in fashion photography for fashion photography’s sake. She has worked brilliantly with photographers – having been a model, she had longstanding relationships with the likes of Bourdin and Newton, who would not have dreamed of working for British Vogue had it not been for Grace. She also put Weber on the map. The 1982 shoot they collaborated on () was a seminal moment. A tribute to the artist Edward Weston, using non-models, many of whom were shot from behind, it felt like such a departure from the bright colours of so much photography in the 1980s. You just wanted to run through that cornfield, wearing that coat.</content>
<class_name>Fashion photography,Fashion industry,Photography,Anna Wintour,Magazines,Newspapers & magazines,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-23T09:00:09+0000</date>
<title>Grace Coddington: the woman who made fashion art</title>
<content>Well, first of all, Mr Politician, well done you for acknowledging that fashion plays an important role in leftwing politics, arguably even more so than in rightwing politics. For too long, leftwing politicians have acted as though giving consideration to aesthetic matters was something shallow, shameful, as distasteful as wondering whether one should have a butler and a cleaner or a combined housekeeper. This, clearly, is absurd. Politics is all about conveying a message with impact, and few things do that as quickly and simply as fashion. So I am happy to see that lefty politicians around the world have finally come round to this way of thinking, from  to . I appreciate that both of these men – or, more accurately, devoted fans of both of these men – will argue that these are not stylistic tricks; rather, these men have worn these items for decades because they’re as true to their values as they are to their clothes. But that is precisely the point: their clothes have communicated this, and these men undoubtedly know that. After all, being anti-fashion is as much a style statement as being on trend. Now, personally, some of us think that Corbyn could consider updating his ideas as much as his wardrobe, but I know how much criticism of St Jeremy upsets some sensitive readers, so let’s not go there so soon after such a nice long weekend.So the style for leftwing politicians now (and, indeed, always) is to look as if you don’t care about your look while very much cultivating a look. Corbyn is the obvious British example, with his almost antagonistically scruffy style. I don’t have time to see , his look cries – I’m too busy thinking about the poor and the downtrodden! Do you really think I care about your opinion of my favoured look of ? Corbyn and I might have certain differences but, by God, I love how he dresses. He must spend veritable hours cultivating that look, unless there’s a store on Holloway Road that I’ve missed called 1970s Polytechnic Lecturer 4 U. Honestly, where can you even buy ?Bernie Sanders is the American version, of course, with his skew-whiff hair and lumpy jackets. Speaking as one New York Jew to another, Bernie, never change – but maybe think about buying your suits from somewhere else other than the Goodwill in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn.Thus, leftwing politicians should dress like death warmed over. But there is an exception to this rule, and that exception is female-shaped. Dressing like you just fell into a dirty laundry basket is seen as adorable, charming, even refreshing from a male politician. But if – oh, just say –  or even  left the house without even having their hair done they would be carted off to wherever it is women are sent when their refusal to kowtow to beauty standards becomes unacceptable (, do send a postcard). Instead, they have to look as sleek as any other female politician – and then they get criticised by lefty supporters for looking “too corporate” and insufficiently dedicated to the cause.So, in conclusion: leftwing male politicians, dress like the undead and be elected a national treasure for it. Leftwing female politicians, dress like any other woman in the public eye and suck up the hate. Happy to help!It’s like the old cliche about a knife and a gun, Sam. Put simply, it’s a lot easier to shoot someone than stab them because you can do the former from a safely impersonal distance. Think of online interaction as the gun here and face-to-face chat as the knife. Most people, if they’re not , don’t like shouting at people in their face. But shouting at them from behind a screen? Totally fine! And I am by no means immune to this. Over the weekend I found myself engaged in a three-hour quarrel – over Instagram, for Gawd’s sake – with a friend in the US because they had suggested that  and Trump are essentially the same. Would I have let this pass in conversation? Probably, life is short. But online? My God, never!  [https://xkcd.com/386/], I couldn’t possibly go to bed – someone was wrong on the internet.Your feelings as you argue online tend to go as follows: ooh, this is fun! Oh man, I am SO going to win this argument! Wait, this is getting frustrating – type faster! God, I hate this person, I hate humanity and I hate myself, I need to stop this. Whoa, where did three hours go?For your own sake, Sam, walk away from online fights and, if you can’t, just get offline. No one ever lay on their deathbed wishing they’d had more fights on social media..</content>
<class_name>Jeremy Corbyn,Diane Abbott,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T13:20:44+0100</date>
<title>Leather jackets, flat caps and tracksuits: how to dress if you're a leftwing politician</title>
<content>I’m , I’m 26, I’m a quiz master, among other things.I dress however I bloody want to dress. For years, I was scared of what people thought of me and felt like a chubby weirdo. As I’ve come to terms with myself, my world has gone from black and white to Technicolor. This outfit shows my inner confidence on the outside.I found it when I was about 10 in my granny’s house, long after she died. I’m not really sure where it comes from.Five, at the moment: a skirt, two crop tops and two pairs of leggings. They’re from a brand called Motel Rock. I came across it online and fell in love.A guy came up to me recently and said: “I like your ganja-leaf clothes.” Then he looked at me and said: “They  ganja leaves, aren’t they?” I think he thought: “Oh no, I’ve offended this poor woman.” I love it when people are amused by what I’m wearing.Scarlet chinoiserie coat. Crop top and mini covered in ganja leaves. Necklace like a luminous toilet chain. What’s amazing about Aoife is that her clothing is so attention-grabbing, yet what you notice is her face. It shines like the sun, and says, “I am here!”She is clearly happy. If you saw Aoife in a bar, you’d know you’d have a laugh with her, whether she was serving or buying.She could be an actor, a nanny, a bus driver or an organiser of off-beam nights that bring outsiders together to dance or knit. I’d be surprised if she worked in fashion. Or the financial sector.Her clothes are interesting. People who wear marijuana leaves on their tops are usually making a point, but she isn’t a hemp-cat type. Aoife’s leaves say: ‘Life is better without restrictions,” rather than: “Shall we close the curtains and listen to Pink Floyd again?” The Chinese coat could have been bought on her travels, or found in a charity shop, or, indeed, been given to her. She wouldn’t have paid a lot for it, anyway. Not her style.As she gets older, I think Aoife will discard the madder extremes of her outfits. As someone who dressed like Andy Warhol-meets-Andy Pandy in my younger years, I know that bright colours, strong hair and this-is-my-opinion clothes are a distraction. They’re talking points that ensure you get attention, but not for how you score on a conventional prettiness scale. When Aoife really believes in herself, she won’t need to hide her true light behind an outer wackiness. Her beautiful, luminous, smiling face tells us everything we need to know.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2015-09-13T06:00:14+0100</date>
<title>‘I dress however I bloody want to dress’</title>
<content> OK by , OK by us. May prove an essential with all this off-the-shoulder business. Terrible when cleaning the bathroom, surreal and wonderful at Rick Owens’ show. The shoes preferred by Demna Gvasalia. That means we should all be swapping  for these forthwith. Kendall’s is Kiss. We’ll also accept Metallica, White Snake and Alice Cooper. Metal salute emoji inevitable. The 80s trouser trend due to hit autumn hard, judging by shows including  and Balenciaga. Try them out now to get used to the stirrup. Rips in jeans should generally be smaller than a pancake. Kanye West’s were not. Thanks Kendrick, but where’s the new one from Frank Ocean? Cindy Crawford should be in Empire as Naomi Campbell’s duplicitous frenemy, not appearing in a docu about celebrity endorsements. Zzzz…. A  in the US celebrating their “very chic” lives. Surely there are better causes. Muted tones are all well and good, but we’re wearing peachy pink as seen on the skatewear’s SS16 T-shirt collection. Very borrowable. All over Instagram. Those of us without braid prowess are fomo-ing hard with this one.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>From fishnet socks to the Olsen twins: what’s hot and what’s not on Planet Fashion this week</title>
<content>The  – or Frow – is one of the hottest tickets during Paris couture; not normally the sort of place you expect to find guests being asked to leave. But that’s what happened to Leo Delevingne (aka Cara Delevingne’s dog) on Tuesday. What was it like to be Frow-n out? Let’s take a look …</content>
<class_name>Cara Delevingne,Karl Lagerfeld,Chanel,Dogs,Pets,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-26T17:14:33+0000</date>
<title>Catwalkies: Cara Delevingne's dog removed from the runway</title>
<content>To some, the menswear catwalks are the poor relations to their female equivalents – a trouser-heavy prologue to the haute couture shows that begin in  on Sunday. But those people have not been paying attention. Right now, menswear in the French capital is having a burst of creative energy.Both on and off the catwalk, a look is emerging from the Paris autumn/winter 2016 menswear shows. It isn’t a trend as such, more a long-term shift in the way men who care about clothes are dressing, which blurs the lines between smart and casual. It is a haphazard, almost accidental way of dressing – padded coats over smart trousers, giant trapper hats worn with tailored pieces, tracksuit bottoms worn too high at the waist with long wool overcoats and a beanie hat. It is an incongruous styling technique that has been pushed by a small but incredibly influential group of new east European designers. They include the Russian , whose own-brand show was a highlight earlier in the week. In a down-at-heel theatre his catwalk featured a gravel runway, dry ice, banana-yellow trapper hats, skater-boy chains and off-key trackpants. The look is echoed at the much-lauded  label, a collective including the Georgian designer Demna Gvasalia. Now big brands have picked up on this aesthetic – Balenciaga has installed Gvasalia as its , and backstage at the  on Thursday the designer Kim Jones praised the creativity of the east Europeans.It is fair to say that John Galliano, the creative director at Maison Margiela,  at the label since he joined in October 2014. The official party line is that Galliano oversees everything Margiela related, but does not specifically design the men’s collection. The label’s owner,  – who also owns Diesel – has said Galliano will put his imprint on menswear in mid-2016, which all seems a bit vague and a missed opportunity, especially since there is both a buzz about menswear and, commercially, Rosso’s risky hire of Galliano has paid off with revenues reportedly up 30%.On the Margiela catwalk at Paris there was evidence too of the eastern bloc styling aesthetic – only without the excitement. The look was an unlikely mix of cycling bib shorts (the sort favoured by professional time-trial specialists), giant duffle coats with ripped-off sleeves and hefty boots. Cropped quilted jackets were worn over suits. Jackets were deconstructed – missing sleeves and glimpses of the inner workings of tailoring are a Margiela hallmark. Also present and correct were MA1 bomber jackets, which have had plenty of airtime on the catwalks of London and Milan already. The show notes referred to clothes being “interrupted”, which (unusually for show notes, which are often incomprehensible) is a rather helpful way of describing this new Parisian aesthetic.</content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,John Galliano,Paris,France,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-22T14:33:09+0000</date>
<title>Maison Margiela menswear is a chip off the eastern bloc</title>
<content>Looking round a small exhibition of nylon used for men’s wear (arranged by British Nylon Spinners, Ltd., at their Manchester office) I began to wonder why so few men of my acquaintance wear nylon shirts. These were the answers I provided for myself: (a) that someone told them, in nylon’s early days, that after much washing nylon takes on, irrevocably and irremovably, a dingy yellowish tinge; (b) that they associate nylon with the silkiness and, worse, the transparency of women’s lingerie; (c) that they want an immaculately smooth, if not starched, shirt front, and suspect nylon of being sloppy; (d) that they just do not like the idea of wet shirts dripping all over the bathroom.Some of the objections are already outdated, others are on the way to being so. Nylon, as every woman knows, has now countless surface guises. It need by no means be either silky, shiny, or sloppy. It can be firm enough for a pique finish dress shirt. It can be as fluffy as angora wool, or it can have the warm, smooth touch of, say, winceyette or delaine. The shirtings which this wife would expect her husband to approve have the appearance of poplins, with pin stripes of blue, grey, red, or green. They are not shiny or silky, and they have a nice “body.” Shirtings line-checked in bright colours on cream look attractive for cold days.What few men outside the textile industry seem to realise is the widespread use now of “textured” nylons. Most of these attractive shirtings, for example, are made of Taslan, which is, literally, a “blown up” nylon yarn. That is to say, the multi-filament yarn is passed through an air jet which creates loops in the individual filaments. This gives more body, bulk, and opacity. There is no doubt at all that most men’s ideal shirt material is cotton poplin, and nylon will only please them when it is similarly smooth, matt, crisp, and opaque. (The thought of a shirt which reveals the outline of the vest below is, understandably, appalling to them.) Taslan has gone further than is generally known towards achieving the ideal. Has it quite achieved it?As for the matter of nylon’s daily dip, my sympathies are entirely with the reluctant male. Nylon should, undoubtedly, be washed daily, if worn in the grime of an industrial city. Does the tired business man slosh it through in the bathroom basin, rinse, and drape over the edge of the bath or over the towel rail, to leave a puddle on the floor which is bound before long to rot the linoleum? Or does he leave it for his wife to run through in the morning? She would undoubtedly rather do her washing in bulk, however thankful she is to lighten the load of her ironing. Someone should surely put on the market a drying gadget which can be fixed to any wall (whether tiled, painted, or varnish-papered) and whose arms are made to take shirts and blouses hanging completely straight, and should market along with it a “drip tray” to protect bathroom and kitchen floors.Against one use for nylon in men’s clothes I can find no single word of male objection or doubt - as a strengthener of pocket materials. A cotton material with 15 per cent of nylon showed no sign of a hole even after 30,000 “rubs,” whereas an ordinary cotton pocketing was worn to a hole after 12,000 rubs across the welt, 15,000 across the warp. A pocket which will keep his money safe as long as the suit lasts? That would be something to thank nylon for!</content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,Fashion and textiles,Women,Feminism,Social trends,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T05:30:16+0100</date>
<title>A plain woman’s guide to nylon for her husband - fashion archive</title>
<content>On Sunday night Donatella , a pocket-rocket of a designer from Milan, opened the haute couture shows in Paris with a collection that was both modern and rooted in reality. Well, at least as much rooted in reality as it is possible to be when talking about evening dresses costing more than £10,000.Her collection was named “Athletic Couture” and featured dresses with ergonomic lines which traced the models’ curves, harness straps and white ski pants and matching zip tops highlighted with orange go-faster stripes all of which could loosely be termed sporty. Before the show the designer said: “I was thinking about women at their most focused and dynamic … women who push themselves to the limit.”Dreams and magic, rather than focus and dynamism, are the more usual vernacular of couture. But this collection tapped into the modern trend of “ath-evening” – wearing posh tracksuit bottoms with high heels or shoulder baring tops with racer backs which recall performance sportswear, to a . It’s a concept which rejects the fusty notion that a gilt edged invitation demands the kneejerk response of a floor length, cocktail dress. That feels a bit too Nancy Reagan-era White House for now. In this context it was refreshing to see a designer using current trends to influence even the highest levels of a brand’s design repertoire. It was a move that younger couture customers – looking for something that little bit more relevant – will appreciate.So much about the world of haute couture celebrates the past. Dresses as weighed down with an over-reverance to the history of  and the workmanship of the ateliers as they are with bugle beads and crystals.Much of the big names on couture schedule are designed by men – the world of couture can feel very backward sometimes.But Donatella’s Versace is different. In couture terms the brand is an ariviste (it rejoined the couture rosta only four years ago). What is more the designer’s approach feels modern and open. The Versace family has been no stranger to scandals in the past but Donatella’s Versace is one where knowing irony lives happily alongside high glamour and sexually charged designs. Look up her Instagram account if you are unconvinced.The designer herself was at pains to highlight Versace’s modern point of difference. She noted that “couture is not about the past, it is a living tradition.” To emphasis this still further the designer had used silicone gel throughout the collection – a forward-thinking kind of couture decoration which looked as if a spirograph had been involved.Chunky crystal ropes (which recalled those sugary shoelace sweets) were knotted and threaded in and out of evening gowns. Flashes of highlighter orange and neon yellow – the sort of colours seen on performance trainers – were a motif throughout the show. There was a catsuit with ski-pant stirrups and a white evening gown which looked as if a neon yellow swimsuit was worn underneath.Dynamism, strength and athleticism may have been the starting point, but there was plenty of femininity too. Supermodels dressed in cobalt blue and acid tangerine dresses wearing four inch heels can never really be accurately described as looking ready to compete in track and field. The couture levels of craftsmanship and technical accomplishment of the atelier were also keen to be highlighted by the Versace team – journalists were briefed that one crochet dress took a month to complete.Summing up the show the designer said: “This collection is one of the most complicated, sophisticated and technically accomplished that we have ever created.” Like the evening wear design her clients will likely lap up, Donatella Versace is not about modesty. Nor should she, or they, be.</content>
<class_name>Versace,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-24T23:22:16+0000</date>
<title>Donatella Versace opens Paris fashion week with sporty couture</title>
<content>This time last year, even the most devoted fashion insider might have responded with a blank stare at any mention of the name Alessandro Michele – but what a difference a year makes. Michele is now the creative director at . He dresses Harry Styles and Alexa Chung, produces feted advertising campaigns with peacocks as accessories, and won best international designer at the British fashion awards last year.Influencing other designers’ collections more than they might care to admit, it’s not overstating the case to say that even in the hyperbolic world of fashion, the long-haired, bearded 43-year-old is something of a messiah.Michele’s third menswear collection on Monday afternoon was the most anticipated of the Milan schedule this season. The assembled press – some dressed in full Michele looks, including fur-lined backless loafers – sat on mismatched bamboo chairs and velvet sofas, practically bursting to see how he had evolved the geeky, androgynous glamour that set the fashion agenda in 2015.The answer came in a collection packed to the gills not only with ideas but also clothes. Western style, chinoiserie and thrift-store chic were all explored, with ten-gallon hats, nudie-style suits, embroidered pyjamas and loud retro knitwear thrown in. There were diamanté slides in hair, Jarvis Cocker-style glasses, pearls studding the heels of loafers (sure to be the cult shoe next season), and socks pulled up to mid-calf. Fun elements came in Snoopy T-shirts and knitted hats with ears. Cute on a toddler, the effect was odd and playfully subversive on a grown man.It was this balance that the best pieces in the collection played on. The now-familiar ground of the 70s more-is-more looks – frilled blouses, those loafers, retro knits – would no doubt preach to the converted Gucci fanbase. But it was the simpler pieces – closer to how Michele himself dresses – that moved things on. While a pair of cropped blue bootcut trousers and a white T-shirt doesn’t sound that exciting when compared to a man wearing a teddy bear-covered cardigan, a blouse and carrying a suitcase, the reduction of the “Michele look” to its bare essentials was striking. Block-coloured tailoring in blues, greens and yellows was tweaked with crumples in the trousers, to add a vintage-store wonkiness to Gucci’s jetset heritage. These were definitely purposeful – a billion-euro business does not forget to iron models’ trousers before a fashion show. While the show notes consisted of a highbrow explanation referencing philosopher Walter Benjamin’s ideas around memory and the past, and “sparks able to build constellations rich with future in which past meets present”, Michele himself was at least a little less academic backstage. Describing his work as “a collage”, he said Gucci is “the biggest fragment, of my 70s memory”. This collection was inspired by the work of Walter Albini, the colourful Italian designer who had his heyday in the same decade, and a more louche idea of men’s style. With this as a starting-point Michele said creating a collection was “like writing a novel – you start but you don’t know where you end up”.Parent company Kering will be hoping he has a keen grasp of the commercial plot. Gucci is the most valuable brand in a conglomerate that also owns Saint Laurent, Alexander McQueen and Bottega Veneta. It is valued at £3.26bn. As such, the stakes are high for Michele, and the faith of Kering CEO Francois-Henri Pinault is strong. Sales, falling during Frida Giannini’s time, fell 0.4% in the third quarter of 2015, but are expected to rise this year, if the Michele gamble pays off. Orders for the spring 2016 collection increased by double digits. In an interview with WWD, Pinault suggested this is just the beginning for the brand. “The implementation of our action plan for Gucci is moving forward,” he said.</content>
<class_name>Gucci,Fashion weeks,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-18T15:53:12+0000</date>
<title>Milan fashion week: back to basics for Gucci's Alessandro Michele</title>
<content>Even the 12th richest man in the global fashion industry dresses up for Paris haute couture. As the models emerged on to the mirrored Armani Privé catwalk, the man himself could be seen half-hidden behind the curtains dressed in a black suit, crisp white shirt and black tie, giving the final nod to each model as they stepped out. It was a much more formal look than the navy T-shirt which is  on show day in Milan.But then Armani Privé is the most exclusive and most formal of Armani’s lines. Armani is one of the most consistently prominent names on the red carpet – Emmy Rossum was a Golden Globes standout earlier this month in a red strapless Armani gown – and there is daywear too, always assuming your daytime engagements consist of what the haute couture crowd call “events”. Charity lunches in Singapore, society weddings in Istanbul, that sort of thing. For this summer, Armani must have his fingers crossed that his clientele are fond of lilac. The first 47 exits, of a total 59, came in shades of mauve, violet and lavender, with a few oyster-shell silvery tones. Slim jackets came with matching shorts, or with cropped wide trousers. Everything shimmered: embossed silk organza with hazy, watermark lines; checkered jacquard; crystal embroidery. Two clear Oscar red carpet contenders sparked a round of clapping, as if the dresses themselves were up for awards. The first was breathtaking in structure, with an embroidered bustier and a full skirt which seemed unfeasibly light and airy for fabric entirely covered with lilac bugle beads. The second was romantic, with frothy silk gauze pleated into fan shapes. Oscar nominee Charlotte Rampling sat front row, but kept a low profile in the wake of her controversial comments about the Oscars and race, avoiding posing for photographers. </content>
<class_name>Haute couture shows,Women's dresses,Women's coats and jackets,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-27T11:40:00+0000</date>
<title>Armani Privé: lilac blooms on Giorgio's couture catwalk</title>
<content>The house of Christian Dior is in turmoil. The unexpected departure of  three months ago has left it without a designer, the design studio plunged against its will into an interregnum period, stirring up unhappy memories of the anxious year that followed  in 2011. Responsibility for this haute couture collection, and for the ready-to-wear collection that will be presented in a month’s time, rest for now on the shoulders of the design team – a thankless task, as the audience out front gossip endlessly about which star designer is about to sign a contract.Not that you would know any of this from Monday afternoon’s show in Paris. The haute couture shows are about brand image as much as made-to-measure dresses, and  simply does not do turmoil. Dior stands, on the contrary, for serenity. From the wedding-cake white packaging, to the Alice in Wonderland oversized D in Dior and the heritage of exaggerated, dreamlike hourglass shapes of the New Look, the house represents a fantasy of swan-like, unruffled femininity.As in most recent seasons, the show was held in a giant mirrored box in the gardens of . The mirrored box is a visual conceit that borrows something from the concept of a country house ha-ha. Where a ha-ha would trick those looking out of the drawing room windows into thinking that the lawn ran unbroken to the horizon, the mirrored box gives the illusion of another Musée Rodin – this time, Picasso-fractured – at the end of the gardens. Inside there was, as ever, a maze of seating, hundreds of startlingly overdressed women, and a full-throttle army of paparazzi. Only the frenzied gossiping of the audience as they discussed the latest Dior-related rumour doing the rounds – that  will take over at Dior later this year – disturbed the air of business as usual. The show began, and it became clear that while Simons may no longer be at the fashion house, the modern Dior ideal that he sketched out during his four years is very much still present. This makes sense, since the collection was designed by a duo of senior designers while Simons was in the job. The sheer number of collections and creative campaigns produced by a house on the scale of Dior means that an artistic director will delegate a good deal of the designing, or oversee with a light touch.The Swiss designers currently in charge of Dior, Serge Ruffieux, 41, and Lucie Meier, 32, took a bow together at the end of the show, before welcoming the other members of the design team on to the catwalk to share the applause. Ruffieux has worked at Dior since 2008, and was promoted to head designer when Simons became artistic director in 2012. Meier worked at Louis Vuitton and  before joining Dior. The collection showed that Simons’ vision for Dior is their vision too. The colours – navy, black, shots of mustard and electric brights – remained recognisable, as did the structured necklines that left shoulders bare, and the long, lean lines of the skirts. The oversized bar blazers, worn open over cocktail dresses, were an idea glimpsed in the previous couture collection. The boxy, perversely sexy bodices with their origami-folds of stiff, tailored fabric were reminiscent of Simons’ very first haute couture collection for the house. The show notes made no mention of the absence of an artistic director. Where Simons liked to download his own thought processes into his shownotes, explaining his influences and messages for the season, this season’s pronouncement focussed instead on the heritage of Monsieur Dior himself and his eternal muse, “the spontaneous, relaxed Parisienne”. </content>
<class_name>Christian Dior,Haute couture shows,Paris,France,Paris fashion week,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-25T18:17:50+0000</date>
<title>Directorless Dior proves it does not do turmoil in classic haute couture show</title>
<content>Beetroot juice on tap, cropped frayed jeans in the front row and frilled blouses on the catwalk at J. JS Lee’s opening show. So far, so familiar for , which began on Friday morning with a Soho car park as its headquarters.But the newest trend at London fashion week is one coming from within the industry in what might be called “Insta-gratification” – the ability to buy the clothes seen on the runway immediately. The biannual event is due to be transformed from September, when Burberry will show a “see-now, buy-now” collection, doing away with the up to six month wait between the show and the clothes appearing in the shops. Following the announcement, other designers including Paul Smith and Michael Kors said they would make similar switchups. But London, the home of Burberry, is keen to claim the innovation as its own. In a speech on Thursday morning, Natalie Massenet, chair of the British Fashion Council (BFC), was quick to make this point. “Burberry’s recent news shines such a strong light on our leadership in this field,” she said. “We are very proud that this started in London.” Burberry announced on Friday that a taster of September will come with their Monday show. The collection will be displayed in stores, and customers will be able to pre-order designs.Massenet, the founder of Net-a-Porter, was nowhere to be seen on Friday. She was, instead, at Buckingham Palace, in the process of becoming a Dame. There are some things, it seems, that can stand even in the way of fashion. This season boasts two notable catwalk returns on Sunday. Alexander McQueen will show on the womenswear schedule for the first time in London in over 10 years in the evening. It is the first time a Sarah Burton-designed womenswear collection, usually shown in Paris, will be seen here. And Mulberry, the Somerset-based brand famed for accessories like the Alexa handbag, returns to the catwalk for the first time since the designer Emma Hill left in 2013. The new creative director, Johnny Coca, is tasked with returning the brand, which has struggled in recent years, to the kind of success that saw profits rise 207% in the second half of 2011. His previous gig was as an accessories designer at Celine, the Parisian house with a fervent cult of followers in the front row. “London is a global fashion capital so it makes sense for international businesses to show here,” said the BFC chief executive, Caroline Rush.Topshop will broadcast the setup of their Unique show on Sunday to their 6.2 million followers on Instagram, but, if that seems old hat, the shots will be taken by Nick Knight, who usually shoots covers for Vogue and videos for Kanye West, rather than the brand’s digital marketing team. The brand describe it as a way to “challenge the classic, often ubiquitous documentation process”.In what is being billed as a battle of the handbags, Charlotte Olympia goes up against Anya Hindmarch with both of the accessories designers having catwalk shows. Charlotte Olympia, designed by , is famed for fun bags and shoes and an photogenic inner circle that numbers models and socialites, had her first a catwalk show on Friday evening. Hindmarch’s shows have featured gymnasts and choirs in the past. Sunday’s, which had a Rubik’s cube as an invitation, will no doubt come with further bells and whistles. Sales in the accessories sector reached £2.7bn in 2015, up 3.4% from the previous year. Handbags, it seems, are big business. </content>
<class_name>London fashion week,Fashion weeks,Accessories,Retail industry,Manufacturing sector,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-19T20:08:49+0000</date>
<title>Fashion to go: from the London catwalk shows straight into the shops</title>
<content>ecause I am a little early, and in true Paris fashion week tradition the morning’s schedule is already running a little late, I spend the first half hour of my visit to ’s Parisian headquarters in the basement kitchen. This being Paris fashion week, however, this is a little better than it sounds: long, scrubbed, pale wood benches and a table piled with bowls of kumquats and slivers of lemon cake on a white platter. Fuchsia peonies in a glass urn are so artfully overblown that, when no one is looking, I stroke a petal to check they are real. (They are.) A charming French PR chats to me about how much she loves living in Dalston. A pair of male models, in dressing gowns and with alligator clips flattening their hair ready for the artless dirty-hair-don’t-­care look they will sport at the collection presentation later, spend 10 painstaking minutes trying to figure out the espresso machine; eventually, generous in triumph, they pass tiny paper cups of coffee around the room.From the ground floor, the building blooms into grandeur: a double sweeping staircase, parquet floor, polished curlicue railings. Loewe occupies the lowest four floors of the building; someone confides, as we walk upstairs, that the sixth floor houses ’s apartment. On the first floor,  executives in elegant black suits are drinking more espressos, up here borne aloft by waiters with silver trays. We climb another level, past photographer’s assistants gaffer-taping lighting cabling to the floor and makeup artists powdering more boys, to the office of , the 30-year-old designer from The Loup, County Derry, on whose talent LVMH is gambling the Loewe brand, the man at whose whim the parquet has been painted wenge-dark and the models’ hair creased flat.All of this – building, mood, floor, flowers, pomp – is as much part of Anderson’s Loewe as the avant garde menswear collection (think: cartoon-embroidered silk pyjamas for Japanese astronauts) which the boys on the stairs will start modelling for editors once their hair is flat enough. Anderson enters the room from the Juliet balcony where he has been smoking a cigarette, and immediately launches into his game plan. “When I started at Loewe, I took a year out before we did a collection, because I felt we needed to work out all the fundamentals. The pencils, the door handles, the style of the press release, the stone of the buildings, the choice of photographer. All of these questions had to be asked, because ultimately, you need to make people forget what the brand looked like before, and get them to believe that the brand was always like this.”There are two Andersons, differentiated by a middle initial. , designer of London’s hottest label, leaves the W at home in Hackney when he gets on the Eurostar to become Jonathan Anderson, designer of Loewe. With or without the W, he doesn’t look or sound much like a fashion designer. He is handsome in a boy-next-door kind of way, with milky pale Northern Irish skin and sandy hair which he constantly scruffles in his hands. He is restless and fidgety. There is a full ashtray on the glass-topped table and a bumper pot of Extra mints. There are two empty espresso cups already, and he drinks another while I am there. He reminds me a little of the young . It’s something in the way he blinks faster when he gets animated, in the twinkly good looks semi-subsumed by an intense, nail-biting intellect.His ambitions for Loewe are both bold and daring. Bold, because the scale of what he wants Loewe to become is almost disarmingly grand. The off-white colour he chose for its redesigned packaging was based on Portland stone, the material used for the British Museum and the UN HQ in New York, a reference he chose because he “wants to make Loewe about culture. I want the stores to be public landmarks, where you see things you might see in a museum, I want that credibility.” (“It’s just my nature, to set the benchmark high,”  two years ago.) And daring, because he is cheekily dismissive of the theory on which most of the modern history of the luxury industry has been built. Brands founded in the 19th century (Loewe, 1846; Louis Vuitton, 1854; Burberry, 1856) have made big business out of dazzling modern customers with vignettes from their august heritage, namedropping history-book clients, pulling rank over newcomers.“It’s like antibiotics,” Anderson says of the efficacy of this approach. “After a while, they stop working. I think people have become immune to that way of doing brands. To say, ‘We made things for the royal family’ – that’s not enough any more. It’s time for something new.” Anderson’s vision for Loewe is to “take a brand that operates in a luxury environment, and make it about culture. Make it a brand that articulates the period I am in now.” History is past its sell-by date in luxury, he believes. “Brands need to move at the speed the world does, and today that is fast. We live in the era of content. We put something on Instagram and it gets reposted and it’s everywhere and a minute later it’s gone, over. I don’t see that as a negative thing; it’s the way my mind works, too. It’s not just about consumers not getting bored of the brand, it’s about me not getting bored of it.”Anderson is smart enough to hear how cocky this sounds. “People say to me sometimes that I’m too arrogant, too forceful,” he says – apropos of, I suspect, a reaction he reads on my face – “but that’s just how it is with me. I give 100% to whatever I’m doing. There is nothing held back.” He traces this to growing up in Northern Ireland in the 1990s. “It was a very difficult period. Car bombs, a town getting blown up. It was awful, and really confusing as a child to live through that, but it toughened me up. I don’t take anything for granted because I know that life is like a fuse.”The now-you-see-it, now-you-don’t middle name comes from his father, , a rugby international who was capped 27 times for Ireland in the 80s, then coached the national side. Willie did not pass on his rugby skills, but his son has inherited his fierce competitive instinct. “The other thing about my father’s job was that while I was growing up on a farm, surrounded by fields and cows, he was travelling and coming home with the treasures of the world. You know, a keyring, a koala bear teddy from Australia. I think in terms of drive and ambition, that was everything for me, the awareness that was all out there.”At 18, Anderson moved to America, to study acting. He had just come out as gay, and “partied, drank, smoked, had a great time. Except after a while I realised I didn’t enjoy the acting.” After a brief regroup in Dublin, where he worked at , he enrolled at the  and found a job assisting legendary Prada stylist  as a window dresser. “The first time I worked with her was in Harrods, and she had just got off a flight, and she was dressed in a crocodile coat with pyjamas and a wedge, and a crocodile bag and two Tesco carriers, and diamond earrings and a headscarf. And I was just… obsessed. She had the most incredible taste, and never compromised on anything. That was when I transitioned into wanting to be a designer, because I wanted to be her. I wanted to operate like she did, creatively but in a commercial context.”Anderson’s ascent has been dizzying. Three years after graduating, he launched JW Anderson as a menswear label; womenswear was added two years later, in 2010. By 2012, the buzz around him was such that ; the resulting  collection was a sellout. A year later, Donatella Versace tapped him up to design , the Versace diffusion line. By the end of 2013, he had inked  for investment in his own label alongside the Loewe job.His pitch for the Loewe job was a book of around 100 images, which he took along to his interview with LVMH’s . It opened with a  of model Kirsten Owen, taken by Steven Meisel for Italian Vogue in 1997. “I was like, I don’t have a collection, but I have this image. This person, this beach, right now.” The image became the basis for his first advertising campaign for Loewe. It was a brave move, when you consider the clothes in the shot aren’t by Loewe, and the photo is 18 years old. But it chimed with a fashion industry currently obsessed with regramming vintage references on to Instagram, and it helped reposition Loewe as a brand that could spring a surprise, which is crucial. “The minute you can be predicted, as a brand, you’ve got a problem,” Anderson notes.The beach scene also reflected how he is relocating Loewe in the public imagination from  to . The shift to the Balearics gives Loewe a personal connection to Anderson, who spent his childhood summers on the island, and still holidays there. (Two weeks in the village of , last summer.) I suspect, also, that Anderson is conscious that Madrid, for all its history and grandeur, gets very little airplay in the global cultural conversation these days compared with Ibiza. My theory would be that he has sidelined Madrid for Ibiza as a tactic to buy Loewe more pop cultural bandwidth without leaving Spain altogether.Anderson’s first menswear show for Loewe featured a T-shirt made from two silk scarves. It was a muted reference to the provocative ideas of fused gender that have made JW Anderson such a hot ticket at London fashion week. Anderson has been driving a catwalk conversation about fluidity in gender which reflects how gender ambiguity has become a cultural issue on every level, from  to the rise of the unisex baby name (Taylor, Piper, Harper). That these are rapidly shifting sands is reflected by the fact that when JW Anderson showed lace shirts for men less than five years ago, the reviews were “so awful that the next day I was thinking, this is not working, I should give up fashion” – yet last month, at their blockbuster catwalk show watched by  and ,  made lace shirts a key element of their menswear collection.“A few years ago, maybe society wasn’t ready,” Anderson reflects. “Or maybe my concept was too hardcore and not refined enough. Or maybe both. But when I look back, that show was probably the most important one I will ever do. It was about gender confusion, because that’s an issue that’s around us, and I believe as a designer you have to reflect what’s going on. It’s fascinating to ask, how does this reflect into clothing? What does lace or silk mean, on a man or a woman?” Some of this, he says, is about the impact our hypervisual digital age has had on masculinity. “Facebook and Instagram have created these forums in which men are putting photos of themselves out there, and cultivating an audience and a response, and that’s something new.”Every Sunday evening, Anderson takes the Eurostar from London to Paris, and spends two days at Loewe. On Tuesday evening he goes home, and spends three days working on his own label. He has a different phone and PA for each role; everyone knows not to raise Loewe issues on JW Anderson time, and vice versa. “It works. I’m sure if I am doing an interview like this in five years’ time, I will be saying, enough is enough.” He laughs. “But for now, I enjoy it. It’s a dream come true, for my personality.”Pavesi’s best advice to Anderson, he says, was “to keep learning. About fashion history, cultural history. To learn in order to stay sharp, because you will never understand enough, but you will enjoy the view as you get higher.” The balcony of his office – presumably like that of fellow die-hard smoker Deneuve’s, a few storeys above – faces the immense facade of , cathedral of the Left Bank, the church where  was married and  christened. Our interview time is up, and as soon as he has said his goodbyes, Anderson grabs his cigarettes and heads out to the balcony. The view is pretty good. </content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2015-09-03T06:15:01+0100</date>
<title>JW Anderson: ‘The minute your brand can be predicted, you’ve got a problem’</title>
<content>The news that fashion has anointed a new designer as a star can be signposted in various ways. For Amie Robertson, who debuted her label  at  on Saturday morning, the evidence came in the form of front-row guest Marc Jacobs, who had flown in from New York, and a coterie of superstar models including , celebrity offspring Georgia Jagger, and Lineisy Montero, currently in the Chanel campaign.For a fledgling label, still designed from a bedroom in Robertson’s parents’ house in Manchester, these signals were enough to make the assembled guests at the Tate Britain show sit up and take notice. The show notes crediting Katie Grand also ensured that they paid attention. Grand, who is editor-in-chief of  magazine, has styled for Prada and works with Jacobs. Her endorsement of an unknown like Robertson is a Big Deal. It turns out that the Central Saint Martins fashion illustration BA graduate met Grand when she completed a year’s internship in 2014 at  in New York.Robertson showed as part of Fashion East, the young talent initiative that presents collections by three young designers each season. Jacobs’s influence could be seen in her eclectic collection. She mixed striped flannels, satin and beaded embellishment. Long, striped dresses and wide-legged trousers were worn with knee-high jewel-coloured boots and short-sleeved satin blouses. Few hems were straight, and some dresses featured ties that looked like jumpers were tied around models’ waists. Grand’s styling was present in the fun makeup and piled-up hair. It added a slickness that most young designers would kill for.Jacobs, dressed in his signature Stan Smiths along with a sweatshirt, backpack and printed scarf, said he came to support Robertson “because she was bright and talented when she worked with us”. The designer is in London to attend the launch of his beauty brand at Harrods, but whether or not he would be attending shows at the rest of London Fashion Week was unclear. “I’m here, but I’m not here,” he said, with a wave of the hand and the air of someone who likes to keep his public guessing.Backstage, Robertson – who wore the bookish outfit of pulled-back ponytail, glasses and jumper – was mobbed for  selfies with Jacobs, Grand and friends. These posts are priceless for building buzz – collectively, the designer and stylist share 720,000 followers on Instagram. Robertson, by contrast, is on . After today that number is bound to increase. “Katie took me under her wing,” said Robertson, who still had the rabbit-in-the-headlights look of someone new to being the centre of attention. “I don’t know why, but it’s great, she’s been amazing.”The designer’s inspirations are already showing signs of being up to fashion muster. “Aliens came to a magical land and flowers started growing out of the earth,” she said of the collection. The stripes were down to her “exploring men’s and womenswear” and also part of the “horror element”, namechecking . The cult 1988 Tim Burton comedy-horror stars Michael Keaton and Winona Ryder, who wear stripes, wonky lengths and layers. It was also referenced by Jacobs last week, following his show in New York on Thursday night.Being part of a trend that also includes a household-name designer is a long way from that Manchester bedroom, but Robertson may have to get used to this new environment.Someone more accustomed to the spotlight is , the London-based designer who had her third outing with Fashion East. Price is building a following who appreciate her mix of streetwear with couture references. For autumn/winter, she used her trademark pastel colours on tracksuits but also long, gathered satin skirts and short bomber jackets. There was an early 00s feel that recalled UK grime artist Lady Sovereign and rapper Lil’ Kim. Price said it was based on the “British ritual of girls getting dressed up to go out” and a “sophistication and glamour, but not quite being able to pull it off”. The cutout silhouettes were inspired by both a Madame Grès dress and a Lycra catsuit designed as clubwear. “It’s about a hybrid,” she said.Fashion East also featured , with a show dominated by striped knitwear gathered at the waist and across shoulder blades.  had a presentation in the venue, with leather party dresses worn by models, and other highlights of London Fashion Week yesterday on Saturday included and . The shows continue on Monday.The high street store’s  always brings the zeitgeisty references, not to mention a great front row.The debut of , who joined the brand from Céline last year. Highly anticipated by the fashion crowd.The return of the very British brand from the Paris show schedule, and the first womenswear show in London by . Drama is guaranteed.The jewel in the crown of fashion week’s “Super Monday”,  is the master of turning the mundane – cable ties, high vis yellow – into a must-have.Youth culture from the past put in a blender and whizzed to make exactly the right recipe for Generation Y. Ripped denim and a slacker feel are ’s trademarks.</content>
<class_name>London fashion week,Marc Jacobs,Fashion weeks,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-20T20:59:46+0000</date>
<title>From bedroom to catwalk: new star Amie Robertson earns her stripes</title>
<content>Forty-six years ago, in July 1969, theRolling Stones took to the stage for . It was two days after the death of guitarist Brian Jones and thousands of young fans flocked to see them. The gig was dedicated to Jones, and Mick Jagger read from , a poem Shelley wrote about the loss of his friend John Keats. What did Jagger, arguably then the figurehead of youth culture, wear for this poignant moment?  with a pie crust collar covered with bows.Ever since  wore eyeliner, men in rock have enjoyed a bit of dressing up and challenging the cultural idea of masculinity. Some of the most iconic men in pop – , ,  – ruled rock’s airwaves done up to the nines in frilled blouses, glitter makeup, brocade, high heels and feather boas. They even had their own designers – Bowie worked with , creator of what became known n as “the man dress” and the designer of Jagger’s 1969 number. The subversiveness of all this only added to their allure, their air of transgression and all-round swagger.While ’s leather jacket and ’s denim are a vital blue-collar, who-cares-about-fashion, macho vision of masculinity in rock, it’s the gender-playing, androgynous aesthetic menswear designers are studying now. Today’s catwalks show styles typically associated with womenswear, only this time worn with stubble and a slouch and an unmistakable masculine attitude.Take . This season is the debut outing for new designer . Although he had worked with the previous creative director, Frida Giannini, for more than 10 years, his image of men is light years away from hers. Her last Gucci menswear show was all nautical, jet set, grown-up and 100% masculine. His first show, for autumn/winter 2015, began with a boy with long blond hair in a red pussy-bow blouse and continued with sheer lace T-shirts, capes and lots more blouses. What a difference a season makes.It wasn’t just Gucci who put their weight behind this new, more flamboyant ideal of man. Balmain’s models wore jackets made of sparkly jewels over their polonecks,  and  had kilts and patterned, embellished blouses, while  created a band of boys in louche leopard-print coats, stringy silk scarves and chelsea boots. JW Anderson – always a disrupter when it comes to gender and fashion – had boys in tight leather, skinny knitwear and bootleg trousers worthy of .Then there’s ’s Saint Laurent. Since he became creative director in 2012, the brand has been a greatest hits of rock’n’roll fashion. Musicians rather than models were cast for this season’s catwalk shows; boys – skinny as rakes, with that signature Slimane-approved swagger – in shocking pink fur coats, leather trousers, mesh tops, eyeliner and heels as high as those of the girls who sometimes joined them on the catwalk.Damien Paul, head of menswear at , links this trend to “a reaction against the sports-influenced look that has been dominant for the last few years and no longer feels impactful. Now it feels much more subversive to channel an androgynous look.”It’s a subversion that, ironically, has been missing from music of late. A quick scan of the charts shows that – just as in the pre-glam era – being a regular guy is the thing. There’s the buttoned-up, Sinatra-influenced smartness of , the T-shirts and jeans of , and the hats and hair combo of singer-songwriter types such as . The likes of  wearing a Givenchy kilt,  in a crop top at last year’s  festival or rapper  wearing chandelier earrings this summer are few and far between in pop. West, hardly conservative when it comes to clothes, even apparently  of himself wearing the kilt from photography agency Getty after negative press online., fashion curator and author of , a book about rock and pop fashion, says: “Young people have become more conservative in the last 20 years and they’re kind of anti this stuff [androgyny in rock stars]. In the 80s, we could afford to experiment; that might not be the case for the post-recession generation.”But if contemporary rock culture has become risk-averse, the same cannot be said of fashion. A rock star’s take on androgyny – let’s call it the rock androgyne – is back on the catwalk, and the moodboard potential is vast. It runs from  and his eyeliner to  and Jagger’s dresses, Prince’s pants-plus-stockings  look, Manic Street Preacher , ’s tea dresses and the blouses that Suede’s  and Pulp’s  picked up in the women’s section of their local charity shops. Cozette McCreery, one of the designers behind London brand , namechecks  and  as moodboard favourites. She says it’s charisma that’s the secret ingredient, the thing that draws creatives. “The best musicians have a, ‘Hi, I’m here and you have to notice me’ attitude. I grew up in the 80s when [] rock stars had better hair than the women and wore Lycra onesies, but they still had groupies. If you have the confidence, it works.”The last time we saw this very masculine appropriation of women’s clothes was in the 90s, when Edwards, in a skewed version of , adopted leopard-print fur coats and eyeliner, and Cobain wore a dress . The fact that the 90s is a decade enjoying a bit of a revival across culture – see everything from the return of  to our screens to  being fashionable and  – has a part to play in this trend, and affects the way it’s playing out.Indie stars of the era – Anderson, Edwards, Cobain, as well as Cocker and Placebo’s  – brought a downbeat quality to the look, different from the otherworldliness of glam rock, or the hairspray’n’tan of 80s rock. Adding irony by mixing women’s clothes with stereotypically manly things such as a beard (Cobain) or a beer (Edwards) brought a punk kind of subversion. Using clothes to play with gender in this way isn’t just about looking pretty: it’s highlighting the edges of society, celebrating outsiders and questioning norms. Speaking on the BBC 4 documentary , Manics’ bassist  remembered the band’s style “appealing to a lot of kids, to look different and be different”. Pop culture critic and music writer , who is working on a book about , agrees. Cobain in a dress, he says – one of the most iconic images of the decade – was “about him saying, ‘I’m with the outcasts.’”It is that feel that current menswear revives. Givenchy’s men in button-through skirts and Gucci’s blouses provide a powerful contrast to the buttoned-up, tidy sportswear men have worn for the past five years. As Gucci designer Michele said after his spring/summer 2016 show in June, “Masculinity was about beauty and that you could interpret that how you wanted.” Givenchy’s  has expressed similar sentiments: “We [fashion designers] don’t have a huge power but maybe we can make people think. To me, beauty is beauty.”The rock androgyne is also very bound up with British menswear – as much as the tradition of tailoring and suits on Savile Row. , editor of GQ magazine, says, “We’re good at tradition and rebellion, and those two strands make interesting juxtapositions.” Jones, who has been “obsessed with Bowie from the age of 12”, says that this look coming from fashion rather than rock is a sign of how style is becoming more important to men. “Fashion has never been so omnipresent. Men are more open to things. The rock look has become a staple because, unlike a lot of fashion cliches, it gets stronger as the years go on. There’s a cycle of reinvention.”For today’s young men, the pomp of rock is light years away, but the fascination with the look remains. Archive images are catnip on Instagram, where anything seen as retro or old school will immediately gain more likes. Gordon Richardson, the design director of Topman, chose to look at these references for the , mixing the 90s and the 70s – a sure sign that the twentysomethings who shop in the high street store may soon be wearing shaggy fur jackets, flares and wedge haircuts. “There’s a nostalgia for fashion in its freest form. Conformity was broken down in the 70s,” Richardson says. “For our consumer it can feel new because they have none of those references. They just like it from a fashion point of view.”But will rock’s men wear fur coats, eyeliner and high heels again? The jury’s still out. Harry Koisser, the 24-year-old frontman of Peace, who wore skirt suits in the video for their track , is frustrated by the rock landscape where “90% of bands look the same”, but he says there may be hope in their audiences. “We have just done a tour around the UK and noticed that more kids are dressing in a flamboyant way. There are more 16-year-olds in fur coats and eyeliner than when I was growing up and everyone wore sportswear. I like to think it’s possible we might influence a kid in Stoke to wear a coat to college.”Paul at matchesfashion says that it will take time, but this is a trend that has legs. “When skinny jeans were first shown, they seemed incredibly radical,” he says, “but before long everybody was in them. Men are being edged towards a more daring approach to clothes. It’s exciting.” The timing may be right for this new view of masculinity – and it may come back to that very rock’n’roll thing: rebellion.“Fashion and youth culture always play with ambiguity, and it breaks through about once a decade,” Gorman says. “It’s about pissing off the older generation as much as possible.” On the catwalk at least, that mission may have been accomplished.  This article was amended on 4 September 2015. The original stated that 1969 was 36 years ago. This has been corrected.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2015-09-04T09:03:12+0100</date>
<title>Men in blouses, boys in brocade: the return of rock star androgyny</title>
<content>t began, as character-defining crushes so often do, on French exchange. I was 13, immersed in Frenchness for the first time, and it was fabulous. First because each morning for breakfast we were given a bowl of hot chocolate and a stack of creamy, scallop-edged biscuits to dip into it. But also because of the stationery. I fell madly, deeply in love with the school exercise books, which were A5-sized, sewn-spined, the pages chequered with a faint quadrille. So elegant, so precise, so chic. WHSmith’s spiral-bound lined notebooks were dead to me from that day onward, and a lifelong love affair was born.Stationery is more emotional than fashion, notebooks and diaries more intimate than your knicker drawer. I can measure out my life in paper, from those flimsy notebooks to the ludicrously expensive Smythson ones I use now. My teenage diaries are even now redolent with the pointless intensity of childhood secrets. The Filofax and Mont Blanc fountain pen I had as a sixth former are unthrowable still, despite or perhaps because of the painfully earnest copied-out quotes and in-jokes scrawled in the margins. I have a treasured folder filled with notepaper from every swanky hotel I have ever stayed in: the  in Florence, with its tiny terracotta duomo motif; , where we stayed on my husband’s 40th. And I have the giveaway organisational safety harnesses of every overwrought modern professional. (Current obsession: the , fixed in the back of every notebook and diary to save precious seconds on endlessly updating my to-do lists.)This is how I know I’m in the right industry, because a stationery fetish seems a prerequisite for working in fashion. Years ago, when  was helming , I witnessed a mini crisis at the London office. A new hire had arrived, and placed a box of yellow pencils on his desk; Ford, who had an all-black rule on pens and pencils, had to be asked for consent. (Reader, he gave it.) The late Yves Saint Laurent worked at the desk at which his great-grandfather, a lawyer, had drawn up Napoleon and Josephine’s wedding contract. On it lived two vintage lamps, a vase of flowers and a pot of blue HB pencils; nothing else was allowed. Last year, when I interviewed , she seemed mildly pleased I was wearing a vintage DVF blouse (oh yes, I do that, flattery gets you everywhere) but it was when I whipped out my diary, an exact match for hers, in grain and sunshine yellow and arrow-snipped silk ribbon, that she gave me a warm smile of fellowship.Ten years ago, fashion’s fetish for stationery was perhaps only to be expected from an industry founded on turning retail into ritual. What is extraordinary is how the fetish has survived the rise of technology that should have rendered it obsolete. Why sketch, when you can video the finale from your seat? Why bother with a diary, when you can iCal?Because we’re Luddites? No. Fashion industry people are as tediously obsessed with their phones as the rest of the world. Yet the lust for beautiful stationery lives on.Well, you know what? Practicality isn’t everything. (I give you: high heels.) If someone throws a great party, it’s quick and easy to say thanks by email, but only a soulless shell of a human being would imagine that it was the same as a handwritten card. Thank you notes (always on headed correspondence cards, surname struck through with a flourish) are still alive and well in the fashion industry. This is in part because its silverbacks – your Toms, your Christophers, your Stellas – still do it, and the rank and file follow suit. Which suits me down to the ground, because I was brought up to believe thank yous are next to godliness.Not that it is entirely high-minded. Snobbery definitely comes into it: Smythson’s appeal is closely linked with its status as the calling card of the Right Sort of Person. On the other hand, many cult items – ,  – have a potent democratic appeal. Like Levi’s or Converse, the connoisseur recognises them simply as best in their class.A new wave of stationery boutiques has emerged in the most fashion-forward cities. In Paris, the 2013 opening of  was followed this spring by a stationery pop-up at destination boutique . In London, no fashion editor’s stroll down  is complete without a detour into the  for initial-embossed notecards in tissue-lined envelopes.A few years ago, visitors to New York fashion week headed straight to the Apple store; this September, there will be a pilgrimage to . The CW is 24-year-old Caroline Weaver, who has a tattoo of a pencil running the length of her forearm and whose specialist boutique sells Swiss beechwood pencils and Portuguese ones scented with lily of the valley, displayed on glossy shelves. It looks more like an exclusive beauty salon than a WHSmith. Indeed these pencils are, as one wag noted, “begging to be Instagrammed”.</content>
<class_name>Stationery,</class_name>
<date>2015-09-07T07:01:09+0100</date>
<title>Do the write thing: why fashion has a fetish for stationery</title>
<content>At , the show starts long before the clothes appear. Karl Lagerfeld’s overture began a few days ahead of this collection with the show tickets: simple slabs of eco-friendly plywood looking nothing like haute couture’s traditional beribboned and gold-embossed invitations.Once inside the Grand Palais on the day of the show, guests found themselves transported from the leaden skies and frenetic streets of  to a blissed-out, spa-like stage set, with a painted blue sky lit by floodlights and a backdrop of trees in full leaf. A minimalist pavilion in slatted wood sat in the centre of a lawn edged by paths picked out in yet more pale wood.The natural idyll was a notable departure from Lagerfeld’s recent Chanel shows, which have been staged in a  (September 2014),  (March 2015),  (July 2015) and  (October 2015). The presence of the ethical fashion campaigner  in the seat next to Anna Wintour was another final clue to the theme of this collection, which Lagerfeld said later was about fashion and natural resources. The set would be recycled immediately after the show, he said.The setting represented nature at its most chic. The final prop was Cara Delevingne, who made a late arrival in the front row cuddling her husky puppy, Leo. It was the perfect backdrop for Lagerfeld to apply the skills of his couture ateliers to making beautiful clothes out of natural, sustainable materials. This summer’s two-tone slingback sandals came not in leather, but in environmentally friendly cork. A skirt was woven out of jute, and embroidery fashioned from tiny paillettes of wood. Lagerfeld has touched on the eco theme before, most notably in 2010 when he imported a giant iceberg as a centrepiece of a Paris catwalk. That day, however, he told reporters that his inspiration was a Swedish ice hotel, rather than the melting of the polar ice caps. Lagerfeld is constantly engaged with the world around him – last year his shows made reference to French national identity, and to modern feminism – but in the end, it is fashion and fashion alone that he takes entirely seriously. The key message of this show was that longerlength straight skirts and cropped wide-legged trousers – the same silhouette, in effect – are chic for spring. Day looks were streamlined and simple, with jackets cropped at the waist, and fabrics stiffened to hold a constant shape. There was an air of tranquillity, even beatitude, which had something to do with the notable absence of distracting, buy-me accessories – the only handbags were simple pouches slung around the waist – and something to do with the languid pace dictated when wearing very high platform sandals and very long skirts. The mood was reflected in the elaborate “Chanel croissant” hairstyle that seemed to fuse geisha styling with Scarlett O’Hara. The elongated flicks of black eyeliner were an idea taken from Picasso, Lagerfeld said. At the close of the show, the screens of the wooden house retracted, revealing 19 rooms with two or three models posed in each, a vast and absurdly elegant dolls’ house. With the Oscars a month away, eveningwear is front of mind at haute couture week. Lagerfeld dressed two of the supermodels of the moment, Kendall Jenner and Gigi Hadid, in looks designed to catch the eye of red carpet contenders – including, perhaps, Diane Kruger and Gwyneth Paltrow, in the front row. Jenner wore a dramatic, multi-strapped black goddess gown, while Hadid’s pale gold column dress was topped with a shimmering cape to match. </content>
<class_name>Chanel,Karl Lagerfeld,Fashion weeks,Paris,France,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-26T14:15:25+0000</date>
<title>Karl Lagerfeld takes Chanel on a nature trail in Paris</title>
<content>In the light of Oxfam’s recent report that  of the global population, the Paris haute couture collections hawking six-figure cocktail dresses embellished with gold leaf or mink trim make a twisted kind of economic sense.John Galliano’s Maison Margiela Artisanal collection, however, is less easy to explain. It is an official haute couture catwalk show, held in an imposing gallery of the Hotel des Invalides to a tinkly, Parisian cafe-society soundtrack. As with the other shows, the prices are kept discreet, presumably lest word of them should spark a revolution. And yet these are definitively not clothes designed to appeal to the super rich, being as much about rags as they are about riches. The philosophy of the house founded by Martin Margiela is about unpicking and exposing how fashion works, rather than using it to brandish wealth and power. “The humble gesture of tearing paper” was the starting point for this show, which started with white skirt suits, each of which had a section torn out and replaced with a different texture: paper, first, then lame velvet. There was an idea here about how a garment takes on the personality and the meaning of the textile it is made of.Next came contrasts in how fabrics are treated and finished, and how that affects how we read them. So there was neat, close-pleated triple georgette one minute, followed by exquisite jacquard with raw, violently ripped edges, followed by leather hole-punched into delicate mesh. An exquisite dress was draped down the front of a model’s body, cinched with a belt and leaving her legs bare at the back: a ballgown, worn as a worker’s apron. (“Decorative surfaces migrate across utilitarian elements”, according to the show notes.)Even the faces of the models were fractured. A glossy stencil of a red lipped mouth appeared on one model’s throat, and over another’s eye. The models’ actual mouths, meanwhile, were painted blue or black. Long hair was threaded with feathers and gemstones until it glinted like a magpie’s nest. It was original, strange, and surprisingly beautiful.The strangest part of all? The sales figures. Revenues at Maison Margiela have increased by 30% in the past year, since the arrival of . Renzo Rosso, owner of Diesel as well as Margiela and the man who gave Galliano the job, says that the couture collection is now the engine of growth at the company, defining the image of the house and setting the agenda for other collections. Plans for handbags and a new perfume are in process, CEO Giovanni Pungetti told Womenswear Daily recently.</content>
<class_name>Paris fashion week,Haute couture shows,Fashion weeks,John Galliano,Women's dresses,Dresses,</class_name>
<date>2016-01-27T13:16:35+0000</date>
<title>Rags and riches: John Galliano’s Martin Margiela collection</title>
<content>Head-to-toe sequins are a no-brainer for rising stars on the red carpet, but here the Danish Girl actor does shimmers in a haute way – all 1970s car upholstery colours and -style squares by Louis Vuitton. It is pretty, yes, but very high fashion – a combination that puts Vikander in pole position for this season’s style Oscar. Julianne Moore’s chartreuse dress has been described, variously, as “puke” and “gorgeous” by the charming fashion critics of the internet this weekend, which is about as divisive as a frock gets. The dress is the most challenging shape and colour from  and would always have represented a bit of a risk. All in all, the red carpet looked a lot less princessy this weekend – and given that these dresses are being worn by some of the most powerful women in Hollywood, individuality over bridesmaid-chic must be good news.Well, no, obviously, but a few brave souls are lifting their heads above the parapet. Like Lori Petty. Does anyone else look at her loopy ensemble – part-candyfloss, part- club kid circa 1996 – and feel a warm sense of nostalgia for a more innocent time, when not everyone had a stylist and the idea that , and lay an egg on the carpet, was possible? More eccentricity, please.The lesson here? Like off-duty models or Cate Blanchett, don’t take style tips from . He looks brilliant in everything – dapper and adorable here, despite the menacing levels of matchy-matchiness, pairing his trousers to his waistcoat to his tie .This dress comes straight from Versace’s most recent couture show – which was , hence the climbing-rope ties – but we need to talk about the shoes. They are platforms, and perilously high platforms, at that. Larson was far from the only star wobbling around in towering shoes of the kind Victoria Beckham lived in before her fashion transformation. This underlines the fact that no matter what happens in the rest of fashion, stylists will squeeze actors’ feet into shoes solely designed to make their legs look longer, regardless of trends or wobbles. In other words, even after , red-carpet progress has not really reached ground level.So many mega red-carpet dresses are the colour of canaries and daffodils. See Lea Seydoux at  and Michelle Williams in Vera Wang in 2006 (a frock so famous ). Now Game of Thrones star Hannah Murray’s super-simple slip dress can join the canon. demonstrates what men need to do on the red carpet to stand out: grab a blazer in a colour that reminds you of your secondary school physics teacher. Put it on. That’s it. You’re done. Sigh.</content>
<class_name>Awards and prizes,Alicia Vikander,Julianne Moore,Idris Elba,Brie Larson,Versace,Givenchy,Louis Vuitton,Game of Thrones,Michael Shannon,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-01T14:31:44+0000</date>
<title>Sequins and simplicity … style notes from the Screen Actors Guild red carpet</title>
<content>t was 1990 and I couldn’t choose which colour frames to have, so I had them all. All the colours. A pair of very large, very round, very rainbowed spectacles, through which nine-year-old me saw a world that, perhaps inevitably, was mainly laughing and pointing. Shame on my mother for giving me the power to decide my own fate, but shame on me for letting them stain the way I’d feel about glasses for the rest of my life. Until now.My favourite bit of fashion is when something you’ve overlooked for years suddenly sidles into view, all fresh and gleaming and covetable. This season, just as I was beginning seriously to contemplate laser eye surgery, it’s spectacles. The Gucci catwalks were particularly fabulous – androgynous, eccentric, romantic – and almost half of the looks were accessorised with glasses. Big round ones, sassy cat’s eye ones, clunky fat ones. MaxMara’s models were similarly bespectacled, while Prada and Chanel’s new eyewear campaigns (, her hair like a fallen Elvis) make glasses look impossibly sexy.I’m clearly not the only one who’s been seduced. People are buying more glasses than ever – in 2014, the world’s largest eyewear company, , registered an 18% increase in profits, generating more than £5.51bn in revenue.As celebrities such as ,  and  begin to wear theirs on the red carpet, the glasses are becoming stars themselves. ’s even have .But they’re . Mate, they’re glasses, the other bit of my brain says, quickly rifling through relevant images from my childhood and teens, and flashing them up on the inside of my contact lenses lest I forget.The time they snapped in half during PE. The sweaty weight of them in August. The sore patches behind my ears. The photos where the flash reflected off the lenses, making it look as if there were just white holes where my eyes should have been. The way you had to take them off for safety reasons whenever you did anything fun. So I never knew what the swimming pools or rollercoasters of my childhood really looked like. The steaming up, the scratches, seeing the world through a patina of dirty fingerprints. The knowledge that nobody would ever fancy me in my whole entire life.Those of you who grew up, like me, with the eyesight of a poorly dalmatian, who suffered through a cruel adolescence of nicknames and celibacy, who worked hard – really, really hard – to master contact lenses, will understand why it’s difficult to think of glasses as anything more than metal-rimmed curses, let alone a desirable fashion accessory.To us it’s no surprise that glasses rendered Clark Kent unrecognisable as Superman, that no one ever thought bespectacled Diana Prince could be Wonder Woman. We understood that part all too well, but we never got the chance to take the glasses off and fly.But here we are. I want them. Glasses by choice – that’s the thing. Rather than being forced into choosing a pair of unwieldy or unsuitable specs, I will take my time, I will invest, I will take pride in this flimsy medical apparatus and treat it with care.Will I enjoy seeing the world through screens again, like my own personal Netflix? Will glasses hamper my spontaneity, as I fold them up and pad my way to bed? Do I take them off for photographs? Will I still look like me? Now’s the time to find out – prescription glasses are suddenly cheaper than ever. Companies such as  (who sell Marc by Marc Jacobs and Ray-Ban, along with their own “retro” designs – two for £55) will send four pairs over for you to try at home. It’s embarrassingly easy to become a glasses wearer, and a fashionable one, too.Today, very little about glasses is about seeing. The focus is how you want to be seen.They are no longer corrective eyewear but a style statement. Stereotypes abound. In 2012, a historian analysed the , finding examples of the way they’ve been perceived across history. While Hitler, he wrote, wore reading glasses, images of him doing so were censored by the Nazi party for fear of his authority being compromised. People who wore glasses, the thinking was, were weak.Things appear to have changed. This season’s glasses are worn with powerful walks and thigh-cut dresses. This season, glasses are cool. In the same way that the sight of a new pair of boots inspires fantasies of the glamorous places you could go in them, today’s glasses let me imagine the glamorous things I’d see. The streets would look cleaner through that polished plastic. The commuters more beautiful. And me – instead of a deficient school-leaver, I’ll look like a well-read sophisticate. I’ll look like I’m in control.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2015-09-05T10:01:04+0100</date>
<title>In the frame: how I learned to love glasses</title>
<content> exercise five days a week and I love it, so I’ll always make sure I get some in before a night out. It could be anything from circuits with my trainer or a bike ride, to yoga. It doesn’t matter, I always feel better for it. It gives my skin a glow and everything feels fresher.If I’ve got a big week ahead, where I have to wear certain outfits for shows, red carpet events or dinners, I will plan everything on the Sunday. I have it all ready on the hanging rail in my dressing room so I’m not dithering and wasting time. It helps to be organised. The same applies when I go to big events such as the Olympics or world championships. If I have 20 shows every day for 20 days, I have to be on it. It’s not as if, when I get to Azerbaijan or Kiev, I can just nip out to the nearest Zara.The key is to be decisive. I’m the opposite to my mum, who will ask “This bag or this bag?” and there will be one extra chain in the handle. I’ve swung the pendulum the other way and I think, “Right, yep, this is it, I’m going for it.” However, having two 10-year-old children means I have an occasional wobble as I walk down the stairs when they go, “Oh, I didn’t realise you were going to wear .” My son is very aware. If he sees any chest he will say, “That’s a chesty dress.” He once followed up with, “Is Dad going with you to this event?” to which I replied, “Yes”, and he said “Good.” It wasn’t even chesty and I am a 34B – I don’t have anything! Gabby Logan presents BBC1’s coverage of the Six Nations 2016, which starts today on the BBC and ITV.</content>
<class_name>Beauty,</class_name>
<date>2016-02-06T06:00:03+0000</date>
<title>How I get ready: Gabby Logan</title>
<content>hen I DJ at student gigs, I start getting ready in the car. My tour manager picks me up and drives me wherever I need to be. They can be quite long journeys so he plays mellow music like Magic FM. Half an hour before we arrive he switches to Radio 1; because it is usually a Friday or Saturday night, they will be playing pumping dance music. That’s when I know it’s time to get ready.I bring a man bag with me in which I have my clothes, hair wax, hair spray, aftershave and a mirror. I will change out of my jogging bottoms into a fresh pair of jeans, a nice shirt and a new pair of socks (I can’t do a gig without new socks). When I arrive, I brush my teeth and I am ready to go.I like to be tanned because I think everyone looks better with a tan. If I don’t have one, I will spray it on. Garnier do something called Face Mist which is good but don’t go too crazy with it. I’ve done that – it doesn’t work straight away so I used practically a whole can, to my cost later on that evening when I was getting darker by the minute. I make sure my teeth look good as I think they are really important. You can tell a lot about someone by their teeth. It is the second thing I notice after shoes. I am not a shoe snob but if your shoes are scruffy on a night out I think it says a lot.And always smell your best. I hugged  after an interview and he was the best person I ever smelt. He told me he was wearing an aftershave called Creed and I was straight on it. It’s expensive but two sprays of that and you feel like a million dollars.</content>
<class_name>Beauty,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-05T06:00:56+0000</date>
<title>How I get ready: Scott Mills, DJ and television presenter</title>
<content>ince 2012, when designer  began his reboot of the Saint Laurent brand, the label has been closely linked with music. Whether that be the young indie bands which populated the front row of his shows to the chagrin of uptight fashion editors banished to the rows behind them, or the designs themselves which are frequently dosed with gig culture – Glastonbury wellies and Courtney Love tiaras were a feature of his last show in Paris. Advocates of the brand are often those who , from Justin Bieber to Keith Richards.So it was significant that at the  show in Paris on Monday evening – the second part of the brand’s fall collection which began in blockbuster gig fashion in LA last month – that there was no catwalk music at all. Instead, the soundtrack was simply the voice of Benedicte de Ginestous announcing the arrival of each of the outfits. “Numero un ... number one,” she declared in a tone at once overly dramatic but also compelling. The significance of this device was not lost on the audience seated on personalised chairs in marble-heavy salons – de Ginestous announced the numbers of each look for Yves Saint Laurent’s couture shows between 1977 and 2002.If the catwalk bingo calling device and the mannered opera chairs paid homage to the house’s history, the clothes themselves were nine parts Slimane, to one part Yves Saint Laurent. Each of the 42 looks echoed one dominant idea – that of a fierce late 1980s party girl – with the odd nod to the label’s original hallmarks thrown in. The take-home image was that of a cocktail-minidress-wearing woman with slicked-back hair, heavy lipstick, sheer tights, a wide belt and an overly dramatic shoulder detail. Picture a woman dancing in a  and you get the starting point. Make her dress shorter, shinier, and razor cut to a millimetre of her breathing capacity, slot in the odd sequinned catsuit, biker jacket and puffball skirt and you have the full picture. The designer himself called the look a reference to classical editorial style, with slicked-back hair and red lips of a zillion  inspired magazine covers throughout fashion’s recent history.Before the show began, guests were gossiping about the rumours that this will be Slimane’s last show for the brand, with designer Anthony Vaccarello hotly tipped to succeed him. But by the end of the show, the audience were wondering whether they had in fact seen the first couture show under Slimane. The brand announced that for this show it had reinstated the couture ateliers in  and Angiers – a plan Slimane has had for the house since taking the helm. He has also said that the reason he initially dropped the Yves from the branding was to eventually make some bandwidth and branding space for a reinstated couture line at some point. Moreover, this collection took place in a restored 17th-century mansion – L’hotel de Senecterre in Saint German which it is calling its new “couture house”. At the end of the show, it wasn’t clear whether the is was actually the end of the Slimane era, or simply the start of Slimane’s second act for Saint Laurent. The latter seems the more likely.</content>
<class_name>Saint Laurent,Chanel,Paris,Fashion weeks,France,Europe,Fashion industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-08T10:58:40+0000</date>
<title>Saint Laurent in Paris: the return of the 80s party girl</title>
<content>Mr Fish, the 60s fashion label that helped usher in a “peacock revolution” in men’s fashion, is to be revived, evoking fond memories of a dandy revolution that inspired the .Although it ceased trading almost 40 years ago, plans are being made to bring out a new line of shirts and kipper ties, using the famous name. The move comes as a number of menswear designers and fashion houses, including Gucci and , are referencing the label’s style.Situated in Clifford Street, London, between Savile Row and Bond Street, the shop was named after its owner Michael Fish. Bowie, who was magnetically drawn towards talent, had found a sartorial partner in crime. Although Fish’s fashion reign did not last long (the shop shut down a few years after Bowie’s man-dress), the store was a part of a new wave of clothes that tapped into the counterculture movement. Teen- agers born into the postwar baby boom had record levels of disposable income and were defining themselves by doing what their parents did not do, including how they dressed.The outfit that Mr Fish is perhaps best known for is the “man-skirt”, which provided Bowie with one of his most memorable (and calculated) sartorial moments. “The man-dress Bowie wore on the cover of [the album]  was part of a plan. He wanted to shock people,” says Paul Trynka, author of Bowie biography . “He was explicitly destroying the Bowie of Space Oddity, the singer with the curly Bob Dylan haircut. It was his first reboot.”It certainly confused many. Arriving in Los Angeles in the dress, Bowie was described by a dribbling  magazine as “ravishing … disconcertingly reminiscent of Lauren Bacall”. Months later, when his PR team took his next album, , to the BBC, they were ejected from the building after being told that Auntie “didn’t play records by perverts”.Trynka says the man-dress was part of a sea change in the singer’s life. “Bowie was hanging out with . He was being dressed by the flamboyantly gay Freddie Buretti. The dress represented all of that.”“Menswear was very conservative at that time,” says Phil Fish, Michael’s brother, who worked in the stockroom of the shop. “In the City it was the bowler hat and stiff collar brigade. People weren’t wearing frilly shirts.” Mr Fish offered a stark contrast: beads on velvet jackets and flattened kipper ties. “His clothes were very dandyish but had a historical depth to them,” says Elizabeth Selby curator of a forthcoming exhibition, . “He was using historical tailoring but making it very flamboyant. In a way he was going back to an 18th-century approach where men weren’t afraid of being expressive with their clothes.”His references may have been looking to the past but they chimed with the free-thinking mindset. Explaining his philosophy, Fish told : “Clothes should not reflect how ‘they’ or ‘I’ think you should look. [They] should reflect how you want to look.”Fish was born in Wood Green, north London, and started his career working as a salesman before getting a job as a designer at Turnbull & Asser in 1962. Here his inventive floral designs helped the company update its lines. His bespoke boutique Mr Fish opened in 1966. “It was a lovely shop,” remembers his brother. “It was always full of celebrities, members of the royal family and aristocrats. He opened up lots of people’s eyes to men’s fashion.”Mr Fish’s notoriety grew. As well as dressing key players in the London scene such as Bowie, he helped costume various cinematic lovable rogues (most notably Peter Sellers in ) and designed Muhammad Ali’s  robe. Mick Jagger wore his bishop-sleeved tunic at the Rolling Stones’ 1969 Hyde Park gig. It was two days after Brian Jones had been found dead and Jagger recited Shelley’s Adonais as a eulogy. The era-spanning shirt-dress felt strangely appropriate.Investor David Mason is behind the revival of the label. “Mr Mason said the label deserves to be relaunched and there’s a market for it,” said Phil Fish last week. The influence of the man who said: “I always believed men are not physically designed for trousers” still looms large. Recent collections from Gucci and JW Anderson featured ​tunic-like skirt-shirts, silk robes and piecrust-collar shirts. And although Michael Fish suffered a stroke 11 years ago that left him speechless, his brother believes the original Mr Fish would be happy at the recent turn of events. “He’d be brimming over with happiness if he could understand everything that was happening.”</content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,David Bowie,Mick Jagger,Muhammad Ali,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-13T00:05:32+0000</date>
<title>Peacock revolution back with label that dressed Mick Jagger and David Bowie</title>
<content>he concept of the front row is understood even by those with just a whisper of an interest in fashion. While music venues have their moshpits and politics has its front bench, fashion has the Frow. A catwalk front row is a microcosm of all the narcissistic peacocking that exists in any industry. But here on the Frow, fashion’s top table, everything is laid bare for all to see. It appears that Karl Lagerfield is a designer who finds this never-ending fussing over seats an absolute delight. Why else would he do away with the row formatting at the  show and make every single seat – all 3,500 of them – a front row? Certainly not for democratic reasons (that seems unlikely for a man at the helm of a billion-euro label selling bags with four-figure price tags) – it’s more likely for the insider fun of it.Staging a show which was titled Front Row Only with the theme itself being catwalk show is both meta and standard for the German-born designer, who likes to fool around with fashion and its tropes. This season, his Chanel extravaganza was more in the concept than the execution. Gone were the fancy sets (see the  and  of catwalks past) and instead he constructed a fancy fashion salon with cream walls, carpets and giant mirrors. It was a salon presentation on steroids. A mashup between the brand’s Coco Chanel heritage with Lagerfield’s pop-art spin on it.If the set represented a meeting of fashion minds, so did the clothes. The models wore flattened boater hats – much loved by Coco herself – with strings of pearls in cartoonish dimensions. The flat boots with tweed suits were the sort in which a Duchess might feed the chickens of her country estate, while the tweed iPad covers were more akin to an international airport lounge. Emoji-printed shoppers – complete with peace V signs, cat faces and flowers – were a typical move from the designer to get cash tills ringing. The fingerless, quilted leather gloves said Lagerfeld, while the giant trapeze trench coats said Coco in her Scottish estate.The show was at its best when at its most modern. Top was a black leather hooded anorak with quilted sleeves, hinting at the Parisian rush towards a more street approach. Less country chic, more street scally is what the Frow is getting excited about.</content>
<class_name>Chanel,Paris fashion week,Fashion weeks,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-08T15:53:09+0000</date>
<title>Chanel in Paris: Lagerfeld revisits Coco</title>
<content>Avenger II Seawolf, £2,760, by Submariner Date, £6,050, by Connected, £1,100, by HyperChrome Court, £3,150, by Big Bang Ferrari Speciale, £20,500, by Aqua Terra Good Planet, £6,830, by </content>
<class_name>Watches,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-06T09:01:29+0000</date>
<title>Time After Time - this season’s best watches</title>
<content>Decadence, £69, by Marc Jacobs, Valentina Poudre, £61, by Valentino, B.Balenciaga Skin, £67, by Balenciaga, My Little Chloés, £30, by Chloé, Wild Strawberry & Parsley cologne, £44, by Jo Malone, Neroli Portofino Forte, £195, by Tom Ford, Super Cedar, £105, by Byredo, </content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-06T10:01:31+0000</date>
<title>Heaven scent: this season's best perfumes</title>
<content>The Italian designer Giorgio Armani has agreed to  for all his products following years of lobbying by animal rights activists.Armani, 81, said in a statement on Tuesday that new technologies “render the use of cruel practices unnecessary as regards animals” and that the decision reflected his luxury group’s attention to “the critical issues of protecting and caring for the environment and animals”.The Armani group, which includes catwalk labels Giorgio Armani and Emporio Armani, AJ Armani Jeans and homeware brand Armani Casa, will be fur-free from the autumn/winter 2016 collection.Joh Vinding, chairman of the Fur Free Alliance, said the announcement “makes it clear that designers and consumers can have creative freedom and luxury, all without supporting animal cruelty”.The Humane Society International called Armani’s pledge “probably the most powerful message yet that ”, adding that designers who continue to use fur “are looking increasingly isolated”.Armani joins Hugo Boss, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger and Ralph Lauren in switching to synthetic alternatives, while British designer , shunning fur, leather and feathers. </content>
<class_name>Armani,Animal welfare,Animals,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-22T17:34:16+0000</date>
<title>Armani goes fur free after years of lobbying by animal rights groups</title>
<content>The disconnect between the invitations to Stella McCartney’s shows and the tone of the show itself has long been acknowledged by insiders at . This season’s – a digital display with the word “invites” flashing across the screen – is pure silliness.Monday’s event, on the other hand, was a serious business. While the show notes talked about “sensual with a sense of humour and a tomboy side” the collection worked on that classic commercial adage: if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. The latest financial results for , for the year ending 2014, saw profits in the UK rise by 22.7%. So, for her autumn/winter 2016 collection, the designer took something of a greatest hits approach, touching on all the things her customers buy season after season: trouser suits, oversized coats, cosy chic knitwear and the kind of evening wear that does not require three hours in hair and makeup. If that sounds boring, it wasn’t. This was one of the strongest McCartney collections in recent seasons. The midnight blue velvet trouser suit with tulle inset across the shoulders was a lovely conceit, as were rust-coloured slip dresses with long pleated metallic skirts. High-waisted flared trousers, a bleached denim shirt dress and juicy puffa gilets had an easy coolness that McCartney could patent. Jumpers with frilled edges and a swan print played into a sort of retro whimsy currently in vogue. In the front row, McCartney’s latest “squad” included , , the singer , and Kenya Kinski-Jones, model and animal rights activist. This was a modern collection, sympathetic to . Perhaps this could be put down to McCartney’s continual ability to translate her own lifestyle as a mother and businesswoman into the clothes she creates. She said as much backstage – the effortless evening wear was down to her interest in “day to night”. She added: “I don’t want to have to change.”In line with her rosy profits, expansion is on the cards for McCartney. New stores opened in the US and Dubai last year. She will design the Adidas kit for  to wear at the Rio Olympics in June; replicas of  were the most successful ever for the brand. It has been suggested that the designer’s next project will be to expand to menswear, with the first collection for spring 2017. No wonder the latest collection was a celebration, as the designer noted backstage, of what defines the  brand.Elsewhere on Monday, , the label designed by Chitose Abe that has a cult following in the front row, also played with brand memes in its Monday show. There were parkas, sweaters with holes in odd places and a colour palette in the shades of school uniforms: bottle green, claret and navy. Some pieces – belted cropped shearling jackets and printed pleated midi skirts – would no doubt please the fans in the audience, but devoré velvet and parkas embroidered with patches usually found on school blazers felt a bit fussy. Walking the line between clothes that both appeal to an established customer base, and move things on, isn’t always easy. continues on Tuesday, with Chanel and Valentino on the schedule. </content>
<class_name>Stella McCartney,Paris fashion week,Fashion weeks,Paris,France,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-07T13:09:30+0000</date>
<title>Stella McCartney show: designer's clothes reflect how real women live</title>
<content>he pursuit of individual and personal style becomes so much more important as you get older. When I look at my clothes at home, I don’t think my style has changed very much since my early 30s. That was when I settled on something. And if I could be 38 again, I don’t think I would dress any differently than I do now, at 50.That said, some elements of the way I dress have been constant since I was a teenager, when I became obsessed with  based on  and his women. I remember taking the magazine into Exeter to get my hair cut like the picture, then buying a fisherman’s jumper in a sailing shop. I bought a grey pencil skirt, dug out my school shoes and ankle socks, got my dad’s overcoat and got the look. I still dress like those pictures in a way.There’s an abiding perception that the high street doesn’t serve older women very well, but in my view it’s better than it has ever been. The choice is huge – whether that’s ,  or . It’s not one stop that gives you everything you want, more that everybody offers something very different.Everyone also used to assume that the high street wasn’t very good quality, but that has really changed. It makes a big difference for a grown-up woman buying fashion. You’re looking for something that has a little bit of longevity – not just in terms of style but also physically lasting a little bit longer.The key is to be true to yourself and confident about what you like. It’s not necessarily about what’s in fashion, it’s what you love for you and your style. I have never been comfortable in structured clothes, for example, and I accept that. I’m lazy in a way. I can’t wear high heels because I can’t walk fast enough in them. I like to feel I can move around and get everything done. I’m also not somebody who scrutinises every detail or seam, looking at the construction. I like clothes that give you the effect of what you want. is a true reflection of what I love now. It’s where I would go for classics: a gorgeous khaki shirt, a camel coat. I think if you want to buy a camel coat, you should always be able to get one, regardless of season or trends. The same with a V-neck jumper and a white cotton shirt. It’s that simple approach to fashion that allows you to dress it up as much as you want, or dress it down. It still leaves a lot of it up to you.If you start with a very classic approach to your clothes, you can add anything flamboyant to that. If you start the other way round, it’s much harder to tone it down afterwards. Start with the boring bit, then add to make it feel more relevant to what is going on in fashion.When I was a 25-year-old fashion assistant, I used to look at a 40-year-old fashion editor and think they were ready for retirement, so serious in their Chanel suits and pearls and Manolo Blahniks. But women are loving fashion at all ages now, it’s cross-generational. Think of how jeans have become the norm. My mum wore jeans into her 70s but her mother would never have worn them. Now you can wear leopard print when you’re 60 but it doesn’t mean you look like  – unless you want to. And if you want to wear sequins, you can wear sequins.I love seeing women like  who were so influential when they were young in what they wear, and they still are. Of course, there are compromises. You do have to be prepared for that thing that fashion does – when you fall in love with something and it feels absolutely perfect but they change it. It’s a bit like how you can’t get a Levi’s 501 to fit like an old Levi’s 501 because they’ve adapted the design. And you do have to age into your style, like  has – retaining your style personality but moving it on so it becomes more relevant to the age you are.I think, in the end, fashion is always about those little things that you discover.  and I bought one because I loved it, but I had never really worn a scarf before. I was tying it round my neck thinking, “Oh, it feels really different, really grown up, to put a scarf on.” I quite liked that. </content>
<class_name>Topshop,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-05T09:01:00+0000</date>
<title>How should you dress at 50? Topshop's Kate Phelan tells you how</title>
<content>“You can ask me anything. I’m an open book. What do you want to know?”That, right there, is who  is. Maybe he doesn’t mean it quite literally – what smart, self-respecting 52-year-old is going to share his deepest secrets with a journalist he barely knows? – but the sentiment is heartfelt, no doubt about that. , Chic’s 1979 disco classic, is playing in his office, seven floors above Spring Street in New York’s SoHo. Jacobs lights a cigarette and leans back in his chair. “I have the word ‘Shameless’ tattooed on my chest. I want to be as honest as I possibly can,” he says. “I sleep better at night.”Marc Jacobs made  in 1986, sporting long hair and an oversized black sweater in the back row of a group shot of eight up-and-coming designers. Thirty years later his name remains box office, with the clout to close New York fashion week. But this Marc Jacobs, on the other hand – the joke-sharing, secret-spilling social media personality – is newly minted in the two years since he finished an epic 16-year stint at the helm of . He has climbed down from his Parisian ivory tower, settled back into downtown New York and begun a restructuring of his label that puts Marc Jacobs, the man – his face, his values, his sense of humour – front and centre. And in doing so, he has rebooted his persona as one of the most compelling figures in the fashion industry.Right. So what do I ask him? I want to ask about his spring/summer collection, conceived as a celebration of America’s legalisation of gay marriage. And about his casting of transgender director  as a campaign model, and the process by which he is engaged, through fashion, with contemporary issues around gender. But I am also dying to be really nosy about what went down on his recent Caribbean holiday, the one from which he posted  and amateur cabaret skits wearing polyester , and was rewarded for his jollity with snipey online noise about whether he was partying when he should be designing. (Jacobs did spells in rehab for alcohol and drug addiction in 1999 and 2007, before getting sober.)So, naturally, I ask him about the videos. “That was a happy, healthy vacation after working really hard all year. It was actually hilarious, because one day we’re all at the table – I was with , fashion designer] and his boyfriend, and , designers of ] and their boyfriends, and they are all European, so they take the whole month of August off – and there’s this magazine article about Marc Jacobs’ never-ending vacation. And I’m like, what? I’ve had two weeks off this entire year!”Sober? “Totally. The previous year, I would have had maybe a glass of rosé at lunch. But this Christmas I didn’t drink at all.” The idea for the first video came at “about 11am one morning. We had drunk grapefruit juice and double espressos, eaten brioche and omelettes. We were having fun, which is what being on holiday is about, right? And dressing up, self-expression – that is what fashion is all about. It has nothing to do with being drunk.”As if to prove his point, the Marc Jacobs I meet is quite different from the one you see in the portrait, taken a couple of hours ago. “I got up this morning and dressed for the photo. I thought, I want to wear a suit, I want to shave and trim, I want to mean business. And then I came into work and 10 minutes later I changed into this, which is what I work in every day.” His office uniform is hi-low athleisure: Marc Jacobs sneakers, white towelling socks, lean Adidas tracksuit bottoms, a snug long-sleeved ribbed T-shirt he calls a “thermal”. It shows off a gym-honed body made, if not for sin any more, then certainly for selfies. The insanely good shape he is in for 52 certainly corroborates a holiday fuelled by nothing more than coffee and omelette. He is refreshingly open about having had a little help with his youthful complexion –  was captioned “No filter, (some filler)!” – but his healthy glow looks very real. Only the salt-and-pepper stubble hints at his age, and it suits him. (I guess he knows this, because the silver flecks are on his face but not his head, so if he didn’t like them he could lose the beard.) The one hangover from his misspent youth are the ever-present cigarettes, which he treats like a stage prop. When he is being intense, he presses the manicured fingers of his smoking hand to his forehead, smoke curling above his head, like Marlene Dietrich.There is something of the character actor about Jacobs, a petite man with six-foot-four charisma. “My relationship with fashion has always been that each of us stars in our own movies and costumes ourselves to play the part we want. You take blouses and jeans and dresses, and you put them together and they tell your story.” This is especially potent for people who feel they don’t fit in, or that the jeans or dress laid out for them doesn’t reflect who they really are. In October 2012, Lana Wachowski, director of  films, gave an emotional and candid account of her transgender experience in , in which she spoke of feeling “that I am broken, that there is something wrong with me, that I will never be lovable.” The speech resonated with Jacobs, because, “while I didn’t have that particular experience – I never had any kind of gender confusion – I knew from a very early age that I was gay. And so at nine years old I felt like I was different from the other boys. I didn’t want to play sports or roll in the mud eating worms, or whatever. I wanted to make ceramics and embroider my jeans and go shopping for back-to-school clothes. My parents never, ever taught me that one skin colour was better than another or a particular sexual preference made me normal– and yet when I was with the other kids, I just knew that I was different. That was hard. That’s where I had such a connection to what Lana was saying.” ,  and  also feature in this season’s campaign. “Authentic, extraordinary human beings who, at various times in my life, opened my mind,” he says. “And, you know, wouldn’t it be wonderful if we could just all accept each other’s differences?” He throws his arms wide in a Broadway flourish, ever the performer.Jacobs himself has always been broad-minded about gender in his wardrobe. He wore a kilt to jury duty in 2010 and  two years later. “, who I used to be engaged to be married to, used to tease me about wearing skirts. But I don’t see how there’s anything masculine or feminine about a piece of clothing. If there’s a great  coat that fits me, I don’t care if it’s in the women’s department. But things are changing. Lorenzo has evolved, so much, as a human being, that he would never say something like that now.” Despite their split, Jacobs and Martone remain such good friends that Martone and his boyfriend, as well as Jacobs’ boyfriend, were part of the Caribbean holiday gang.***Jacobs’ early childhood was chaotic. After his father died when he was seven, his mother remarried several times in quick succession, uprooting the family each time before Jacobs found emotional stability as a teenager, living with his grandmother on the Upper West Side. You get the impression he became worldly at an early age, even for a New Yorker. Last September,  with a love letter to his native city, an exuberant, Broadway-themed show staged in the historic Ziegfeld theatre, entitled Marc Jacobs: One Night Only. It was part nostalgia and part optimism, born out of the emotion of the June day last year when . “We were all elated on that day. We were together for the first meeting about the collection and in a very flip sort of way I said to the design team, we should do Americana, the red, white and blue. And we started talking about America, and about New York, and , Jacobs’ stylist and collaborator] told me about this documentary where Bette Midler, who is a performer I have loved since I was eight or nine, takes the journalist around all the places of her past in the city. And when I watched it, so much of it was my New York, the city I grew up with. So that became the starting point for the collection.”But how, I ask, does that translate into fashion? How do you get from the emotional power of the idea of New York City, to clothes in a store? “Because there’s a visual aspect to everything. And to me the visual part is the seductive part. Every colour, every print, every embroidery in that collection references some aspect of my life in New York over the past 40 years.” The show was a knockout, and its autobiographical spirit seemed to symbolise how Jacobs, no longer splitting his time between Marc Jacobs, a diffusion line and Louis Vuitton, was once more putting his heart and soul into .Jacobs is wearing Adidas striped tracksuit bottoms, the polyester kind, and a , styled after a curved nail, which retails at £34,300. A healthy tension between low-fi and high-flying has been a theme since 1993, when , aged 30, won him the prestigious CFDA Women’s Designer of the Year award, but also got him sacked. Many promising young fashion stars, once knocked off course, are never seen again, but not Jacobs. Within a year he was back on the New York fashion week schedule with his own label,  for free. In 1997, he was hired by Louis Vuitton, where he turned a luxury luggage company into a fashion powerhouse, while simultaneously expanding the Marc Jacobs empire with the launch of a Marc by Marc Jacobs diffusion line in 2001. In 2013 Jacobs left Louis Vuitton to concentrate on his own line, after which the Marc by Marc Jacobs line enjoyed a feted last hurrah under British designers , . The signs are that the newly streamlined Marc Jacobs company – majority owned by LVMH, with Jacobs and longtime business partner Robert Duffy each retaining a stake – is headed for a stock market launch. (In 2013, a timescale of three years was mooted, but no date has yet been set.) Duffy has stepped aside from CEO duties, replaced by , fresh from overseeing a period of expansion at Givenchy, and today Jacobs is enthusiastic about pouring his energies into a new, potentially lucrative Marc Jacobs beauty line. “I love cosmetics,” he says. “It’s like a show: choosing the colours, the image, the shapes and forms with the packaging, the names.”Jacobs’ first Marc Jacobs show after leaving Louis Vuitton was . At the time,  saying, “I am so appalled by the whole social media thing. I don’t get it, it doesn’t appeal to me.” I spoke to Jacobs backstage after that show, and wrote in my notebook that he spoke of Vreeland as “passionate in her tastes, but never afraid to totally change her mind” – words that seemed prophetic a month later, when Jacobs embraced Instagram with zeal. He laughs about this, when I ask him. “When I said that about social media, I was on a bit of a tirade. Four blocks of the West Village were shut off that day because of the crowds to meet , and it just seemed insane. I was very into  at that time, and her thing of being very absolute yet very arbitrary in her tastes. She absolutely loved something right up until the point where she absolutely hated it.” The day he read his quotes in Vogue, he went home and took a selfie. “And that was how my Instagram account was born.”He now has 400,000 followers. “I like the attention,” he says, disarmingly. “I like reading the comments. Well, most of them. Of course the problem is that there can be 500 positive comments, but the one negative comment will be the one that I remember and the one I talk to you about. I talk to my therapist about this all the time.”The dynamic goes like this: I ask Jacobs questions about fashion, which he answers by talking about people and relationships and conversations, rather than about clothes. Ask him about red carpet fashion and he talks about how much he loves Cher, whom he dressed for the Met Gala last year. Ask him about the Americana collection and he talks about his memories of clubbing in the meatpacking district before gentrification. Ask him about the ad campaign and he talks about how he and his boyfriend cried when they listened to Lana Wachowski’s speech. He is good at chat, the type who can make a taped mid-afternoon workplace interview feel like an after-hours catchup. Even his personal extravagances seem centred around relationships rather than aesthetics: when I admire the Cartier bracelet, he tells me how he bought plain gold versions for each of the friends he went on holiday with. A generous gesture, because Cartier bracelets, even the ones without diamonds, aren’t cheap, and he ran through the holiday guest list at one point and I am pretty sure it ran into double figures. And it’s the same later on, when he tells me about his art collection. It’s about creating a dialogue in a room, he says, about filling a space with ideas and emotions. One of his favourite pieces, he says, is “a 1960s . It’s  on a white canvas, which I’ve imbued with these warm feelings, like a beautiful sunny smile. Really, it’s just a yellow shape. But I feel like it tells a story.</content>
<class_name>Marc Jacobs,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-04T07:01:27+0000</date>
<title>Marc Jacobs: ‘I have the word Shameless tattooed on my chest'</title>
<content> don’t know about you, but skipping through meadows chasing butterflies is not something that takes up a huge proportion of my time, not even on bank holiday weekends in spring. Am I the only one whose leisure hours do not stretch out beneath fluffy clouds, like , with a schedule that reads: pull on flimsy dress, skip around under fluffy clouds, lie down in long grass for picturesque nap?I ask only because I had a free half hour the other day and quite fancied a quick retail hit, but was thwarted by the fact that every dress on the shop floor was from the chasing-butterflies school of summer dressing – pale, floral, flimsy, with ruffles and ribbons just asking to trail prettily on a light breeze.I would like a pretty summer dress, but one I can actually wear. Ruffles droop on me and ribbon ties are more likely to get caught in the tube doors than on the summer breeze. And a pale, Monet-toned dress is lovely, but what to wear with it when it gets chilly? On fashion shoots, it is normal for models to feel cold in what they are wearing. But I don’t like being cold, so skipping out of the door in nothing more than an off-the-shoulder frock and a spritz of perfume isn’t an option.Catwalk fashion has a much more grown-up, wearable approach to what a summer dress should look like in 2016 than the supposedly real-life high street. (Shame about the price tags, but you can’t have everything.) There is a style of dress that you might call the “Valentino”, after the label that owns the look: a simple flat, square bodice piece the size and shape of a large hankie, no collar, a seam but no belt at the waist, long slim sleeves, and a moodily dark floral print. This has been a fashion week look for a while, but is beginning – as in this Warehouse number – to appear on the high street. It is dreamy in an appealing way (this is not a dress for power meetings) without being butterfly-chasing. It is a dress you could actually wear, on a bank holiday weekend in spring. Happy days.</content>
<class_name>Dresses,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T13:00:18+0000</date>
<title>What I wore this week: a summer dress you can actually wear</title>
<content>ashion may be quixotic, but there are some things you don’t argue with: ’s genius, ’s Edwardian collar preference and the stone cold rightness of . In a prescient editorial printed in January 1969 with the headline, “What are you trying to hide?” the mag declared that the only response to worrying that your underwear would be visible beneath your clothes was to turn a wardrobe vice into a virtue. “Show that you mean it,” it declared. “Don’t count on your underclothes not showing, choose them so if they do, it doesn’t matter.” Accompanied by a model shot and clothes credited to Woolworths – an arch styling move if ever there were one – it documented a pivotal moment in the fashion history of underwear as outerwear.Forty-five years later and the concept of the blurred line between public and private fashion – what ought to be concealed or revealed – is still being played out on the catwalk. For spring 2016, the debate began in September at the Givenchy show – a visiting dignitary at New York fashion week for one season only – where designer  riffed on a slip dress theme with chemises, wispy lace and silk slips. At Calvin Klein, creamy ankle-length slip dresses with misbehaving slovenly-cum-sexy straps were worn with minimal trainers and recalled the 90s. It was an echo of the brand’s heyday, a moment of nostalgia for those whose love affair with fashion began when a doe-like  defined the brand. In London,  continued the theme, showing silky flowing slip dresses with utilitarian rucksacks and contrasting chunky sandals. Was Christopher Bailey submitting to his inner grunge rocker?As you might expect, the underwear-on-display look was especially prominent in Paris, spiritual home of the cinq à sept.  was filled with tryst-worthy clothes, all white silk nighties and hotel slippers, a romanticised room-service look. At  the trend crystalised.  isn’t known for pushing overt sexiness, and her lace-trimmed slips with intentional creasing weren’t presented that way. But in the hands (sorry, on the boobs) of a woman with curves – as evidenced by  – their sensuality is hard to ignore.But it was  who really spelt it out, with a Saint Laurent finale celebrating grunge. Slip dresses with -worthy tiaras and explicitly bare backs that felt more backstage pass than boudoir summed up the allure: despite its flimsy fabric, a slip dress can multitask, representing both sex and rebellion at the same time.A quick skirt through the history of the slip dress backs up this theory. Fans of the style include, in no particular order: ,  (come on, in fashion terms she is real), , , , , ,  and . Women who share, if not a style, then a kind of sartorial irreverence.In its basic form the slip dress, with its spaghetti straps, silky fabric and often lacy trim, mirrors underwear, but also wants to be seen. , an exhibition opening in April at London’s V&A, examines the relationship between underwear and fashion. Its curator, Edwina Ehrman, sums up the wearing of underwear as outerwear as “a way of challenging contemporary morality. It represents the difference between what should be public and what should be hidden, and the breaking down of those barriers.”As far back as the late 18th century, fashion leaders such as  and Marie Antoinette were wearing fine muslin dresses with a sash around the waist. Not so shocking now, but to their contemporaries it would have looked as if they were wearing their underwear. Ehrman claims that the classic -style dresses of the early 1800s were an even earlier example of this. To underline her point, the curator has chosen to exhibit a -type dress next to her own favourite underwear as outerwear dress: a John Galliano for Givenchy slip, cut on the bias and owing much to the 1930s slip dress trend. A newly single Princess Diana wore another Galliano dress – this one for Dior – to the Met Ball in 1996 just a few months after her divorce. Bet she was feeling sexy and rebellious that night.For , contributing fashion editor at Vogue and slip dress styling aficionado, it all depends on context. “You can have such different perceptions of the slip dress – in a tacky situation it looks terrible, but it can look incredible, too. Either East Hampton or totally grunge. To me the appeal is to deconstruct the sexiness, to subvert it. The genius of Courtney Love in a slip dress was that she turned an essentially conservative and conventional item on its head. It’s the ultimate punk thing to lampoon something so commercial.”Like many, the slip dress that most resonates with me belonged to  to a model agency party, Moss accessorised with an almost empty beer bottle and a Marlboro Light. The dress hides nothing and highlights what look like knickers from a multipack of pants. What is shocking is not that you can see the moles on her breasts but just how nonchalant she is about the whole thing. It’s a display of pure casual rebellion. Ehrman, who has included the original Bruce dress in the exhibition, agrees that the moment was “so natural, like she’s just pulled it on”.In today’s post- age, where catwalks are live-streamed on Grindr and naked penises swing on the runway, the idea that underwear as outerwear might shock seems almost quaint. So what is the appeal of the slip dress now? Overt sexiness is not the prevailing mood in fashion, but we are enjoying yet another 90s revival. From  and Vetements’ grown-up grunge to the minimalism of brands such as  and , the style imprint of that decade is hard to ignore. The slip dress is mercurial in this context – it can be a grunge-worthy charity shop find, sleek and minimal, or sexy, depending on your shoes and hair.Add in a trim of lace, known among high-end fashion buyers as “retail gold”, and the slip dress represents the perfect fashion storm. It pushes style boundaries and cash registers in a louche, dishevelled way. It speaks of punk and grunge and sex – but all in the most casual fashion.  This article was amended on 10 March 2016. An earlier version said incorrectly that the V&A exhibition included the John Galliano for Dior navy lace-trimmed slip dress that Princess Diana wore to the Met Ball in 1996.</content>
<class_name>Dresses,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-07T10:03:00+0000</date>
<title>The big reveal: deconstructing the slip dress</title>
<content>he rules of power dressing have been turned upside down with the rise of 2016’s most-wanted two piece suit. It will set you back around £800, and ensure kudos from the cognoscenti – but the similarities with Italian tailoring end there. This year’s power suit is a tracksuit.A hooded cotton polyester sweatshirt and matching cuffed tracksuit bottoms by the white-hot Paris label will set you back a cool £790, but the set is already sold out in most sizes. The singer and actress , who with 71.3 million followers is currently the most followed person on Instagram, and who recently enlisted the services of top Hollywood stylist Kate Young to overhaul her image, was photographed in this tracksuit at fashion week;  has been snapped wearing it at the airport. Even more exclusive is the , which at £1,125 for a half-zip silk-jersey top was an instant hit from the spring/summer 2016 catwalk show. Then there is the Loewe’s soft suede zip-through tracksuit by JW Anderson (current holder of the British Fashion Designer of the Year awards for both menswear and womenswear) the top half of which retails for a cool £3,525. At New York fashion week last month, supermodel Gigi Hadid wore a black nylon Adidas tracksuit for a much-photographed date with her popstar boyfriend Zayn Malik; a week later, the first five male models in Burberry’s London show each wore a tracksuit top layered under a coat or jacket.The tracksuit has long been the uniform of society’s underdogs and outsiders. It is an instantly recognisable badge of disaffected youth, from Harry Enfield and Kathy Burke as sullen suburban pubescents Kevin and Perry, to Vincent Cassel and Said Taghmaoui in the 1995 French classic of urban youth, . Meanwhile, James Gandolfini as Tony Soprano, and Ray Liotta as Henry Hill in Goodfellas, made the tracksuit a screen cipher for backroom business operations.Now, the tracksuit has become the emblem of a new iconoclastic mood in fashion. The Vetements label, where deliberately inelegant sartorial reference points range from tour merchandise to  corporate uniforms, now beats Chanel for front-row cachet. “Right now, it’s cooler to like like you’ve dressed down, rather than up, which a tracksuit insinuates whether it cost £2,000 or not,” says Kay Barron, fashion features director of Porter magazine. Kate Phelan, global creative director at Topshop and a contributing editor at British Vogue, sees this as “a rebellion against the ‘peacocking’ that dominated how people in the fashion industry dressed, for a while. The everyday of fashion has become cultish as a reaction against that.” , the fashion label founded by British designers Katie Hillier and Luella Bartley last year, features a £1,645 tracksuit in the current collection, with an autumn version in the pipeline.The tracksuit revival builds on a cult for bad-taste dressing which began last year with Gucci’s sell-out fur-lined loafers and the championing of Wes Anderson’s quirky screen heroine  as a style icon. The red Adidas tracksuit worn by Ben Stiller as Chas has emerged as this year’s Tenenbaum reference. Using sportswear “to intentionally throw ‘off’ your outfit is a styling hack from streetwear, that has been adopted by the catwalk,” says Rebecca Lowthorpe, fashion director of Grazia. “And ‘off’ is a good thing aesthetically, these days,” she explains.The rise of , sportswear and the nineties revival have all fed into the tracksuit buzz. Where the  tracksuit as worn by Britney Spears was soft and feminine, the new version is distinctly ungendered. Meanwhile, the most significant change in the retail industry has been the rise of  – sportswear worn outside of the gym – a shift which has made sportswear increasingly acceptable in smart environments. And the spirit of the 1990s, when Helmut Lang turned the side-stripe trouser into the new tuxedo, has been the most-referenced era of recent catwalk seasons. The Chloe show starring the tracksuit was soundtracked by ’s 1990 hit, Loaded.Phelan plans to wear her Chloe side-stripe track pants with a classic V-neck sweater, while Natalie Kingham, buying director of Matchesfashion.com, points out that the Vetements tracksuits, being tightfitting and high-waisted, are very flattering worn with high heels. As Lowthorpe notes, “the tracksuit is far from humble, these days.” </content>
<class_name>Selena Gomez,Celebrity,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T13:31:19+0000</date>
<title>Take the money and run: the rise of the £1,000 tracksuit</title>
<content>When people meet me in the flesh, they often seem disappointed that I don’t resemble Mark Donovan, the character I played in , a bit more closely. “Where is the French crop, where is the sportswear?” they think. Instead they find someone with a lifelong enthusiasm for dressing snappily – for . But sports casual not so much.In fact my all-time fashion inspiration goes a bit like this: West Indies cricket teams of the 70s-80s. . . . . .My clothes mean a lot to me; they have history. The more long-lived the item, the greater its ranking in the wardrobe. I’m thinking of a shabby Italian tweed jacket of my mum’s that I poached when I was 15. I remember being told I was dressed like a “young fogey”; I took it as a compliment, and never looked back.Not that I don’t rock shiny new sportswear. I do – but normally sticking to a singular theme. I might be doing my best impression of a West Indian cricketer from the 70s, with bucket hat and wide collars, or -era hip-hop style, high-tops and bomber jackets. Or more recently, travelling long haul, I might go full Nike Tech Fleece. What I don’t often do is cross the streams. I always want an outfit to feel complete.Perhaps it doesn’t help that I’m colourblind and often wear strongly contrasting colours, as they don’t confuse my eyes as much as blended tones. But in aiming to never be underdressed, I occasionally end up overdressed. Maybe swapping clothes with Elgar for a day or two will teach me to find the in between spaces, the levels between levels of dressing, like that hidden floor in .When the outfits Elgar has chosen for me arrive, I get a warm sense of nostalgia; the brands and style feel familiar. The first outfit is APC jeans and a red tartan Fred Perry shirt, which fit very well, as does the navy  jacket with bright red lining. I have a flashback to owning two Baracuta jackets myself, but in lurid pink and neon yellow. In this incarnation I feel very blokey, and a little muted. My Air Force 1 trainers are a lone beacon of white in a sea of navy and grey.The whole ensemble is not unflattering; I feel well put together, but a bit anonymous, as if I’m dressing to blend into a crowd, like an undercover cop.At lunch, my friend Jemima points out the almost matching shades of plaid on my Fred Perry shirt and my jacket lining. “I like the coordination between the collar and the jacket.” “Thanks,” I reply, grateful for a bit of early reassurance. But as always I’ve underestimated her French sarcasm. “I mean it’s too obvious,” she says. Ouch. “Your casualwear is more stylish,” she offers by way of comfort. “Is this normcore?” I ask the table. “You look more like the slick guy in a movie about football hooligans,” my friend Nikesh muses. I’ll take that… I think.The one thing I hadn’t bargained for is the cold. My winter wardrobe is full of layers, shirts and cardigans tucked under thick coats and blazers. I feel very exposed in my lightweight jacket. I resolve to dig out an old fishtail parka for the rest of the day. It’s kind of sports casual, so I hope it’s not cheating.On day two I wear my second outfit – a blue-grey Adidas Spezial Beckenbauer tracksuit – to the football. It’s a warmer affair, thanks to the Stone Island x Nike coat that comes with it. To my surprise, the outfit gets a rapturous response. Unlike the first ensemble, which seemed to remind people of something I might wear, albeit with the brightness dialled down, this full-on casual look is enough of a departure for people to really take notice.“You look perfect,” my dad chirps as I meet him outside the Loftus Road stadium. One of the football regulars, Ben, takes a shine to it, too. “You should keep this as your look,” he says. My wife has given it her stamp of approval – she says it’s “very attractive” – and I start to wonder what all of this positive feedback says about my usual clothes. I think my mates enjoyed seeing a laddier side to my personality; they appreciated my style without the flamboyant edge. As I leave, I ask my friend Alex why people prefer me in this outfit. He gives it some thought. “You look like it’s 1997,” he says, “but you’re pulling it off.”It feels good to have had so many compliments in a single day, though afterwards I relish the return of the sense of expression my own style gives me. Elgar’s style is unfussy and practical, and there’s something comforting in that for both the wearer and those around them. Looking at my own colourful wardrobe, perhaps I’ve learned that, sartorially, sometimes less really is more – for a trip to the football at least.Ever since I was old enough to know what trainers were, I’ve been obsessed with sportswear and streetwear. Nike Air Max. Adidas Spezial tracksuits. Levi’s jeans. Stone Island, Timberland and Supreme. For me sportswear isn’t a trend – it’s a way of life. I love sports and I still dress the same way as the friends I grew up with in Peterborough and Liverpool. I take as much pride in choosing the right trainers as someone else would in a three-piece suit. Not that everyone understands that; some people look at my clothes and seem to think I’m about to rob them. That’s definitely not the case – I’m just a normal guy who doesn’t wear super-fabulous outfits.I think my look reflects my personality. I’m easy-going, 33, not ready to be too grown-up quite yet. My clothes are a uniform, really. I’m a fashion director of GQ Style, a huge men’s magazine, working on many different projects, so the last thing I want is a dilemma getting dressed in the morning. I’d put on a suit if the occasion demanded it – I wouldn’t wear a tracksuit to a wedding – but there are some things I would never wear. Like trilbies or anything too polished that deliberately turns heads. I prefer to blend in; my look is kind of muted. And I always wear socks – I don’t think that cropped trousers, naked ankle thing looks attractive. Not with my ankles, anyway. At first, when I heard I would be dressing like Henry Lloyd-Hughes for the day, I didn’t think it would be too difficult. I knew of him from his role as the school bully in The Inbetweeners, a character who dresses as if he’s straight from the football terraces. But the real Henry is nothing like that. He looks great – he has a very clear sense of his own style – but his clothes are totally unlike mine. He’s dapper and precise; suited and booted. It’s more formal than the way I dress, a look with the feeling of a bygone era.Henry often has a proper Victorian strongman moustache, so I decided that, to embrace the challenge fully, I’d shave off my beard up to my moustache. That was fun. Actually the clothes affected me more. As soon as I pulled them on – a roll-neck jumper, suit jacket and grey tailored trousers – I felt a bit , very smooth. I can recognise that as a great look, but I’m much more  and  myself, and my behaviour changed.Going to work, I didn’t sprint up and down the escalator in a mad panic to be on time, like I usually would. In my smart, more restrictive clothes, I walked down instead. In my head, I thought there was more chance of me getting away with being late; I could just lie and say I had been to a bank meeting. It felt as if I was acting, like I was dressed as an older, more authoritative figure. I carried myself differently; felt more grown-up, more sensible.The most marked response came when I was shopping. Sometimes when you wear casualwear, you feel as if sales assistants or security guards are judging you. Now they eyed me up very differently – as though I might buy the entire shop. It was amazing to see how much strangers judge you on your clothes.In the GQ office I’m surrounded by very opinionated, well-dressed men, from , who always looks slick, to  and  who explore fashion brilliantly, and one of the coolest men in Condé Nast, the always effortless . The majority seemed to really like it – I suppose it’s a men’s fashion and lifestyle magazine, so they’re pretty open-minded about trying new looks. Our creative director, , greeted me with, “What’s wrong with you and what are you wearing that for?” but then went right back to his computer. The attention felt weird – I’m usually happier for someone else to be the star of the show. After work, at the football, my friends’ reaction was pretty positive, too. At first they assumed I was going on to a work party. “You look good. Though not really like yourself,” said one as I stood awkwardly in my tailored trousers in a pub after the match. “You look like a 1980s footballer. Or a black .”The one person who really was not convinced was me. In truth, I felt uneasy. Save for some kind of big lifestyle change when I get older, I can’t imagine dressing like this again. It just doesn’t reflect my personality. The experience also made me realise we still live in a judgmental society; it’s bizarre how foolish some people are for judging others on their clothes when they clearly don’t know their stuff.The next day, back in my own clothes, I went and watched the football down the pub and felt like myself again, with one little grown-up addition: I’ve still got the tash.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-06T10:01:31+0000</date>
<title>Smart v casual: the ultimate menswear style swap</title>
<content>he last time I wore a tracksuit top – vintage navy blue with the classic zip-up funnel-neck finish – was circa the mid-90s. Flashback: I’m in a pub in my small home town, leaning (probably a bit drunkenly) against a jukebox, with floppy hair, possibly wearing some friendship bracelets. Enter three older, tougher-looking men who stop, survey me and simultaneously chorus above the pub din: “.”I didn’t know how to take it. On the one hand, a comparison to ’s  was no bad thing to someone obsessed with . On the other, there was something a trifle unsettling about the fact that they thought my top was completely hilarious. I kept wearing it, though. On a recent trip to my local vintage shop to score a new/old one, I was duly transported back to that moment.Obviously, my reason for hunting a track top down again is because we’re on the verge of a big comeback. Last June, at the end of the Lanvin spring/summer 2016 show, I spied a model wearing one similar to that dear old Parklife one of yore. And I logged it. I definitely had zips on the brain. Tracksuits had appeared on various catwalks, from  to . But it’s the top that looks set to springboard from fashion circles to real life, and the evidence is coming at you in all manner of directions.Blur and , clearly champions of this item of clothing during the 90s (fashion’s favourite decade right now), gave the tracksuit top lad swagger and a rebellious spirit. Renton in  contemplates life over a pint in a pub wearing a classic navy Adidas one from the same period. Such youthful scuzzy-energy taps into current chatter around grunge, also back on the style frontline, partly following the success of ’s Saint Laurent reboot.The last time the retro tracksuit had any significant cultural airtime was in 2001 when s character and his sons wore classic red Adidas versions in ’s classic . This film has always been moodboard porn for its quirky retro-ness, though has perhaps been viewed as a tad too geeky for the full tracksuit revival. Note: the retro geeky look is back at Gucci.At Parisian label  I spotted – tucked into suit trousers or tied around waists – red or navy tracksuit tops that had a whiff of that classic Adidas look about them. Meanwhile Valentino’s catwalk featured an excellent zip-up tracksuit in Anderson-friendly brown with a contrast navy stripe running down the arms and legs.The hype around Russian designer  and his 80s Soviet-era vibes has produced catwalk track tops with cult status. His youthful spirit has inspired fashion shoots left, right and centre, while it has also been noted that his look shares something with the wardrobe of Moritz Stamm, the lead character in Channel 4’s excellent import drama .But putting the 90s, the geeky and the Soviet Russian vibes to one side for a sec, track tops are also the latest in a long line of sportswear-oriented revivals, particularly in menswear. Sneakers have been one of the biggest stories for several years, while posh track pants and printed sweatshirts (see ) have become cult hits. Why? Men’s wardrobes are continuing to loosen up. Shirts and ties are being ditched for less stiff-upper-lip layers.Almost half the current spring/summer Prada show featured some kind of riff on the zip-up. The second men’s look in this show featured a top in thick bands of white, red and black with a turtle-style neckline with a silver zip pull, layered under a blousy shirt and a jacket – it had a bit of the cycling top about it. The notable thing was the idea of using the zip top not as just an outer layer, as per its 90s incarnation, but as something that could be worn underneath anything.Even better news: designers have decreed the tracksuit top has legs for next season, too.  showed 70s-style versions with crystal zip pulls. And at  track tops were the hero piece – 29 of 55 looks featured them. They were either worn on their own (including a sequin version), with the zip done up to the chin just so, or layered under an oversize, swingy coat. Newsflash: the track top is set to be to autumn/winter 2016 what the roll neck was to 2015: the ultimate base layer. It’s a look that anyone who’s anyone should get into right now. Go! </content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-08T07:01:15+0000</date>
<title>Back on track: the return of the zip-up tracksuit top</title>
<content>ometimes, a jacket comes along and rapidly gets ubiquitous. Last month, it was the Saint Laurent , beloved by everyone from Miguel to Keith Richards. This month it’s a customised denim jacket that has been spotted on A$AP Rocky and . West even paid tribute to the jacket, with his Sharpie-covered Life of Pablo signature sheet jean.Created by designer-cum-artist Pauly Bonomelli under the charmingly titled  of . Each of these bespoke jackets feel like mini art projects: filled with doodles that look like they have been nicked off school desks or taken from the wall of the . The label is consciously shrouded in mystery – they don’t do collections. Instead the team takes a DIY approach to stuff. “I just treat it as a selfish creative outlet rather than a fashion label,” Bonomelli . We’re loving this anti-fashion as fashion. </content>
<class_name>Kanye West,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T06:02:07+0100</date>
<title>Kanye West's denim jacket – stylewatch</title>
<content>Former fashion mogul Pierre Bergé has lashed out at designers who create Islamic clothing and headscarves, accusing them of taking part in the “enslavement of women”.The French businessman was for many years the life and business partner of designer , who died in 2008. Together they founded YSL.Bergé took aim at the big fashion chains that have followed the Italian designers Dolce & Gabbana in catering specifically to the Muslim market.“I am scandalised,” the 85-year-old told French radio station  1 on Wednesday.“Creators should have nothing to do with Islamic fashion. Designers are there to make women more beautiful, to give them their freedom, not to collaborate with this dictatorship which imposes this abominable thing by which we hide women and make them live a hidden life.“These creators who are taking part in the enslavement of women should ask themselves some questions.”He declared: “Renounce the money and have some principles.”Earlier this year Dolce & Gabbana became the first major western brand to openly aim at capturing a corner of the Islamic fashion market – estimated to be worth $260bn (£180bn) – with its abaya range. It included 14 abayas or ankle-length dresses, which it matched with embroidered headscarves and hijabs.The Swedish giant H&M followed their lead, using a veiled Muslim woman in its advertising campaign, with the Japanese brand Uniqlo earlier this month announcing it would begin selling hijabs in its London stores.Marks & Spencer has also put its toe in the water, marketing full-body “burkini” swimming costumes in its online store.</content>
<class_name>Yves Saint Laurent,France,Europe,Islam,Dolce & Gabbana,Marks & Spencer,H&M,Retail industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T23:45:20+0100</date>
<title>French fashion mogul Pierre Bergé hits out at 'Islamic' clothing</title>
<content>ormal suits are one of those overlooked but enduring elements of modern life. For almost 400 years their presence in public life has been constant. Despite predictions of a demise in their popularity, their unobtrusive contours still clothe the bodies of men and women in all walks of life and all regions of the world. And beneath the monotony of appearances there is a poetry to their simple forms. The very fabrics and weaves of the suit’s construction read like an ode to the traditional landscape: Saxonies and Cheviots in plain or Panama, hopsack or Celtic, Mayo, Campbell or Russian twill, Bannockburn, Eton stripe or Glenurquhart check.Aside from its status as an icon of unchanging heritage, the suit has also adapted itself subtly and cleverly to change. Indeed, there are many fashion journalists who now look to this staple of menswear for signs of creativity and innovation that have been lacking in womenswear for years. The financial crisis, environmental concerns and a generation of consumers attuned to questions of ethics and quality have created a space in which a vibrant, if niche version of contemporary sartorialism can thrive. In this context, the longstanding values of perfect form and fitness for function attached to the cult of the suit have endured, prospered and look set to continue.An evolving form of technology in its own right, the suit offers a canvas for those in the clothing industry who have become neophiles, championing future possibilities. In the present and coming marketplace, suits made to measure through the precision of body scanning and produced by digital printers, engineered to resist staining and creasing or to preclude the need for wasteful and damaging dry cleaning are either familiar items on the shop rail or at prototype stage.In the realms of science fiction and experimentation the suit has lent itself to investigations of everyday clothing as armour against violent attack and surveillance, as a communications device for the transmission of big data, and as a membrane for medical and psychological intervention, feeding drugs to the body or enhancing mood. Its adaptability has ensured its survival as an icon and vehicle of modernity.In just the past century then, the suit has been used for the purposes of trade, politics and nationalism. It has been adapted by mainstream designers and subverted by subcultures. Its currency has held value for the established professions – the lawyers, bankers and undertakers – while inspiring artists, writers, musicians and film-makers.And in the more mundane circumstances of everyday life, though I find myself reaching for the tweeds and denim of sad middle-aged habit too often, the charcoal suit does still emerge from my wardrobe on occasions that demand more careful observation. In that sense my wardrobe habits have not evolved too far from those that dictated appearances for my father and grandfather’s generations. In all of this I find some reason to hold out hope that the suit will endure for another 400 years, provided those values of reason, democracy, beauty and progress that characterise civilisation endure with it.The Suit: Form, Function and StyleInspired by the revolutionary ideas of André Matsoua in the 1930s and fuelled by the cosmopolitanism of pan African music and dance that thrived in the 1950s and 60s, returning emigres from Paris fuelled a revival of political dandyism in the 1980s and 90s. Now the young men of Brazzaville and Kinshasa assert their aspirational styles as a form of ownership of the means to freedom. Suits were never made simply to conform. The Société des Ambianceurs et des Personnes Élégantes and its followers, the Sapeurs, have promoted a vibrant revival of the suit in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.Montague Burton founded his suit business in Chesterfield in 1903 and it grew to become one of Britain’s largest chains of clothes shops. Our understanding of the suit as a badge of healthy, respectable British manliness owes much to Burton’s ethos. Between the 1920s and 1970s most British men would have passed through Burton’s doors to purchase their first suit, imbibing as they did its military precision, moral rectitude and quiet taste that informed a reassuring sense of what was normal. Loud colours, extreme cut and any tendency towards unsporty softness were viewed with extreme suspicion.There is something so satisfyingly elegant about the New Edwardian suit, that aristocratic fad that hit the streets of Mayfair and Chelsea in the late 1940s and early 1950s. A revivalist fad among ex-guardsmen, aristocratic loafers and interior designers, its wasp-waisted outline set itself against the baggy hang of the demob suits that served for the majority of the male UK population. The style’s accessories – bowler hat, polished shoes and umbrella – provided regimental glamour, while velvet collars, embroidered waistcoats, ticket pockets and covered buttons recalled the bonhomie of racetrack and music hall: suit as fancy dress.Giorgio Armani deconstructed the suit in the 1980s, sloping the shoulders, lowering the buttons and adopting lighter fabrics. His suits signalled a sense of femininity, an abandonment to the caressing feel of fabric on the hard surfaces of the male body. This was a frisson celebrated in his designs for the lead character Julian, played by Richard Gere, in . Julian’s narcissism became the signature theme for a decade’s flirtation with style.‘Iki’ is the ancient Japanese understanding of understated elegance, a concept that has proved useful in the translation of the rules of the European and North American suit to other contexts. In the 1970s Japanese designers brought a hybrid interpretation of East and West to the Paris catwalks. Kenzo Takada, Rei Kawakubo and Yohji Yamamoto developed an austere, decentred suit. Beloved of architects, avant-garde film directors and advertising moguls, it proclaimed all the sophistication that Savile Row sometimes lacks.</content>
<class_name>Men's suits,Men's fashion,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T06:00:07+0100</date>
<title>The evolution of men’s suits</title>
<content>ach Miko is 6ft 6in, has a 40in waist, and is the first plus-size male model , IMG, which looks after models including , Freja Beha and . Having modelled for Target, one of the US’s biggest retailers, and soon to be modelling for Yours, one of the UK’s biggest plus-size fashion retailers, the 26-year-old’s signing comes at . Despite the demand, there are currently no plus-size male models on the books of a major agency in the UK. In Germany, there are three agencies dedicated to plus-size male models, but their remit rarely stretches outside Germany (Miko hails from Connecticut). In menswear, plus-size refers to XL and up (higher than a 42in chest), but can stretch to anyone very tall and well built. For reference, the Guardian uses male models with a 32in waist. Coined “brawn” by IMG (and the brother of “curve”, its female division), it marks an attempt to remove the “plus-size” moniker and, the agency hopes, present a more realistic male body shape.There are very few [plus-sized male models] in the US. I think it made a splash because Target is a big retailer. But they just put me in the shoot with classically sized male models, so all the fashion blogs were like: did Target sneak a plus size guy into their site? But, yes, it has been quick. The first advert came out in July, the first article came out in September and here we are.If it was a women’s site, and there had been a non-model in the lineup, yeah, sure.It’s still a very new thing. There is still no definition for it. This whole idea of “brawn” is loosely based on me.I don’t find “plus size” offensive, but I think it’s the same [as fat] in that plus size has grown to have a negative connotation. Plus means additional, outside; it keeps pushing that label of not being “normal”. If you see the word “brawn”, you think about physical strength and power, just as “curve” suggests sexy and confident, as opposed to “big”.There has been a lot of support in women’s modelling – models such as  and  have been making huge waves. Seeing someone [like Graham], who would normally be shunned, was awesome. I always had my own body-image struggle. With men, there is still a lot of bravado and false masculinity to get through.You’re not supposed to care about how you look. If you have issues, you aren’t supposed to talk about it. It’s considered weak or un-masculine. Which is stupid. It’s about having feelings that make you human. I think, even now with the progression, you still have that 1950s male mentality of men being strong and emotionless. If it makes men realise that it’s OK to care about how you look, or even feel bad about it and want to change … I have had [body] issues all my life and that can make you insecure. You project those feelings on to others and that can damage relationships. It creates this vicious cycle. It could all be avoided if you opened up and said I do or don’t feel good about myself.I was between diets and trying to change the way I look for so long. As an actor [Miko is a member of the  and has appeared in ], I was told by every casting director that I was too big. But I think I was trying to make other people more comfortable. I have always been a big guy, I was picked on as a kid, and that’s where it came from. We live in a society where “big” and “fat” have become insults, and “skinny”, “little” and “petite” have become compliments. We have come to correlate a negative meaning with “big” and “fat”.Yeah. And I think men want to see a normal-looking guy modelling their clothes.I am a big advocate of health. I just don’t think you have to be a twig to [be healthy]. Other people don’t have a right to project an idea of unhealthy on to you if you have this extra weight. I think labelling people as unhealthy is unfair. You don’t know what their health is. People think I’m a slob and that I don’t take care of myself. But I do. For starters, I cycle every day. But you do start to internalise that [feeling].I grew up appreciating fashion, but I thought if it wasn’t available in my size I wasn’t allowed to wear it. I wore my father’s hand-me-downs. I’d be a different person today if I had been able to put on any clothing. Size has been such a barrier between people for so long.That’s my biggest hope. The average waist size in the US is 39in. Most stores stop at 38. Immediately, half the population don’t have access to these clothes. They’re cutting off such a giant marketshare. But the fashion industry is about money.</content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,Body image,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T16:53:41+0100</date>
<title>Plus-size model Zach Miko: 'Men want to see normal-looking guys modelling their clothes'</title>
<content> has said it is “deeply sorry” for the racist and sexist Twitter messages generated by the so-called chatbot it launched this week.The company released an official apology after the artificial intelligence program went on an embarrassing tirade, likening feminism to cancer and suggesting the Holocaust did not happen.The bot, known as Tay, was designed to become “smarter” as more users interacted with it. Instead, it quickly learned to parrot a slew of anti-Semitic and other hateful invective that human  users fed the program, forcing Microsoft Corp to shut it down on Thursday . Following the disastrous experiment, , saying Tay was a “learning machine” and “some of its responses are inappropriate and indicative of the types of interactions some people are having with it.”But the company on Friday admitted the experiment had gone badly wrong. It it would revive Tay only if its engineers could find a way to prevent Web users from influencing the chatbot in ways that undermine the company’s principles and values. “We are deeply sorry for the unintended offensive and hurtful tweets from Tay, which do not represent who we are or what we stand for, nor how we designed Tay,” wrote Peter Lee, Microsoft’s vice president of research.  Microsoft created Tay as an experiment to learn more about how artificial intelligence programs can engage with Web users in casual conversation. The project was designed to interact with and “learn” from the young generation of millennials. Tay began its short-lived Twitter tenure on Wednesday with a handful of innocuous tweets. Then its posts took a dark turn. In one typical example, Tay tweeted: “feminism is cancer,” in response to another Twitter user who had posted the same message. Lee, in the blog post, called web users’ efforts to exert a malicious influence on the chatbot “a coordinated attack by a subset of people.” “Although we had prepared for many types of abuses of the system, we had made a critical oversight for this specific attack,” Lee wrote. “As a result, Tay tweeted wildly inappropriate and reprehensible words and images.”Microsoft has deleted all but three of Tay’s tweets. Microsoft has enjoyed better success with a chatbot called XiaoIce that the company launched in China in 2014. XiaoIce is used by about 40 million people and is known for “delighting with its stories and conversations,” according to Microsoft. As for Tay? Not so much.“We will remain steadfast in our efforts to learn from this and other experiences as we work toward contributing to an  that represents the best, not the worst, of humanity,” Lee wrote.</content>
<class_name>Artificial intelligence (AI),Microsoft,Twitter,Internet,Computing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T16:52:40+0000</date>
<title>Microsoft 'deeply sorry' for racist and sexist tweets by AI chatbot</title>
<content>Hands up who needs some motivational help to spring clean their wardrobe? *Puts own hand up*Help is at hand. Fanny Moizant, founder of fashion resale site , is a woman who practises what she preaches, clearing out her wardrobe and selling most of it on at the end of every season. And while I’m never going to be that woman, I want to break out of my current state, which is that I open my full-to-bursting wardrobe and think: I’m not wearing any of this old rubbish. But then when it comes to a clearout, I hoard it all anyway.But look at Fanny – she looks so happy, with her non-jumbled accessories. I want to be more like Fanny. So these are Fanny’s tips for being More Like Fanny.Unless you want to keep them for ever, sell designer pieces within three to four seasons – people tend to still want items for a few seasons, but interest wanes after four or so. With very popular, sold-out items, if you can be ruthless and sell within one or two seasons, there is a good chance you can recoup most of the original retail value. (Keep proof of purchase to reassure your buyer.)Take a tip from psychologist Anuschka Rees, who helped author Vestiaire Collective’s Detox Handbook, and take a break. If you love a piece, but you can’t think of three upcoming events or occasions at which you will actually wear it, store it out of sight. When you reopen that box, cull all the pieces you haven’t thought about since you packed them in there.This is essential unless you plan on building an extension for your clothes, and that gets expensive. If you purchase something new, something else has to go.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:01:16+0100</date>
<title>Temporarily break up with your clothes (and other ways to spring clean your wardrobe)</title>
<content>A few years ago I was walking in London’s Spitalfields market when I came across several rails of dark blue jackets. Or rather, half-jackets. You wouldn’t have wanted to wear one up a mountain but they wouldn’t have been suitable for a funeral either. They were scruffily formal; casual but smart enough to do dinner as long as the Queen wasn’t there. The best thing were the pockets: fat envelopes of fabric on each side, big enough to wedge in a cold hand or an average-sized paperback, as well as an unexpected inner pocket on the right. How French. Mine cost £25 and I have worn it most days since, making it value-competitive with my socks. I have relished its practicality and dirt-resistance. Also that it says I have thought about what I am wearing but only very quietly.Nothing lasts. Whatever island of trendless fortitude you think you have found, eventually the fashion navy will cruise into view. I suppose if they were being sold in Spitalfields these shirt-jackets – shackets, if you will (you probably won’t) – must already have had some claim on fashionability but nothing like what’s happened recently. They are everywhere, with the crowning achievement being the outsized women’s version in the spring 2016 collection from , the Most Fashionable Label In The World Right Now. If fashion works upwards, the shacket might have started at the bottom, but it is now very much here. Lest anyone accuse the trendmakers of not having a keen sense of oxymoron, they’re under the title of “French workers”. “French chore jackets have been around since the late 1800s,” says Ian Johnstone from , which does a brisk trade in them. “They were worn daily with matching trousers. The most favoured colour was blue as this was generally worn by farmers, craftsman, auto workers and railway workers. Black was the preferred choice for carpenters, but some other workers would also keep a black version for church on Sundays.”“They have had a huge resurgence over the past five years; now every menswear brand will have a cotton version in their range,” he says. He has sold jackets from Le Laboureur, a traditional workers’ manufacturer, since he founded his shop three years ago. They have always been popular; now there is often a waiting list. “No one else was selling them and they are quite hard to come by. We sell them to every age group. They are popular with a new younger generation that are really into workwear brands and the utility look, but we also sell to 35- to 45- year-olds that have grown up with that look.” Two other original French brands are Le Mont Saint Michel and Vetra – the latter recently collaborated on a version with Margaret Howell. Typically the jackets are made from heavy cotton drill or heavy cotton moleskin. The two most popular blues are Hydrone and Bugatti, the latter slightly brighter. But these “original” jackets are much more expensive than the market stall options, being anything from £140 upwards. Perhaps I’m being naive, but I can’t imagine the Marseille track-layers of the 1900s spending that much on workwear. After I took to wearing mine, I noticed fashion people started referring me to “Bill”, a mysterious figure who turned out to be Bill Cunningham, the influential 87-year-old New York fashion photographer with an unvarying look: smart shirt, khaki trousers and a deep blue chore jacket. He became a kind of inadvertent style icon – some refer to the colour as “Bill Cunningham blue”. But when he picked his up from a market in Paris – or so the story goes – he was just looking for something practical. He liked the pockets.After years of build-up, the jackets have hit the agogee of Vetements. The only way is down. Like a stopped clock waiting to be wrong again, I look forward to the new wave of old-style French worker jackets to start appearing in charity shops, stained with coconut water and Diet Coke rather than oil and engine grease. </content>
<class_name>Men's fashion,Men's coats and jackets,France,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:49:24+0100</date>
<title>From fields to catwalk: rise of the French worker's jacket</title>
<content>lmost a year has passed since opinion polling suffered its worst reverse in living memory. Election night, 7 May 2015, stays in the mind for many reasons, but most of all for the unexpected and startling 10pm exit poll that predicted a Conservative majority after  from every organisation had anticipated a hung parliament. Today the nearest thing to a definitive explanation is published. It is the result of months of careful analysis by an independent panel of academic experts in statistics and research methodology, and it concludes that all the polling organisations made the same mistake: their raw material, the population sample that underlay all the rest of their work, failed to represent reality.Politics – both politicians themselves, and voters – needs polling. It is most important at election time, when a sense of the shape of the future informs the debate about the present; if the polls are wrong, the debate is out of focus. What, we knew on 8 May, did the question of  matter, when the future actually involved a majority Tory government ? This May and June, too soon for the recommendations in today’s report to take effect, campaign strategy and reporting will be calibrated on unpublished private polls with a whiff of the kind of groupthink that misleadingly anticipated a Ukip surge in December’s Oldham West byelection, . Working out how to get the result of the last election right won’t guarantee accuracy in the next one.Led by Patrick Sturgis, professor of research methodology at Southampton, the panel  in its interim report that the pollsters failed because they hadn’t reached enough Tory voters. That sounds less important than it is: it means that the way pollsters analysed and weighted their samples was not seriously flawed. But they began with a flawed impression of reality. The errors in their basic sample were shown up by the much more extensive  post-election survey based on 3,000 face-to-face interviews.Talking to people in their homes revealed that those who were hardest to reach were most likely to vote Tory. But this is too costly and time-consuming an exercise for regular pollsters and the newspapers that fund them. The Sturgis review recommends that the BES conducts a pre-election attitudes survey to give polling organisations a genuinely contemporary view of who thinks what.It is a good solution, but . Knowing what someone thinks now is not the same as knowing how they will vote next time. Pollsters tend to base predictions on past behaviour. When, as in 2015, the political landscape has been transformed over a single parliamentary term, the past becomes a much less reliable indicator. The rise of the nationalist parties and Ukip meant there was an unprecedented degree of fragmentation, while one of the main parties, the Lib Dems, had gone from being at least partly the home of the protest vote to a party of government. The BES post-election survey got the winner right but it got the down-the-field results, where other pollsters had been broadly accurate, very wrong. There is a lot for everyone who cares about polling to absorb here. But day-to-day polling will always be a slightly blurred snapshot of a moment in time: usually interesting, never definitive.</content>
<class_name>Opinion polls,Conservatives,Labour,Liberal Democrats,Scottish National party (SNP),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T01:01:00+0100</date>
<title>The Guardian view on polls: understanding failure doesn’t guarantee future success</title>
<content>Microsoft’s attempt to converse with millennials using an artificial intelligence bot plugged into  made a short-lived return on Wednesday, before bowing out again in some sort of meltdown.The learning experiment, which got a crash-course in racism, Holocaust denial and sexism courtesy of Twitter users, was switched back on overnight and appeared to be operating in a more sensible fashion.  had previously gone through the bot’s tweets and removed the most offensive and vowed only to bring the experiment back online if the company’s engineers could “better anticipate malicious intent that conflicts with our principles and values”.However, at one point Tay , in front of the police, no less.Tay then started to tweet out of control, spamming its more than 210,000 followers with the same tweet, saying: “You are too fast, please take a rest …” over and over.Microsoft responded by making Tay’s Twitter profile private, preventing anyone from seeing the tweets, in effect taking it offline again.Tay is made in the image of a teenage girl and is designed to interact with millennials to improve its conversational skills through machine-learning. Sadly it was vulnerable to suggestive tweets, prompting unsavoury responses.This isn’t the first time Microsoft has launched public-facing AI chatbots. Its Chinese XiaoIce chatbot successfully interacts with more than 40 million people across Twitter, Line, Weibo and other sites but the company’s experiments targeting 18- to 24-year-olds in the US on Twitter has resulted in a completely different animal.</content>
<class_name>Microsoft,Artificial intelligence (AI),Twitter,Research and development,Internet,Computing,Social networking,Social media,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T11:07:12+0100</date>
<title>Microsoft’s racist chatbot returns with drug-smoking Twitter meltdown</title>
<content>A Chinese funeral home is using  to manufacture spare parts for dead bodies, state media has reported.The Longhua funeral home in Shanghai is thought to be the first in  to use 3D printing in this manner.“Sometimes bodies are brought to the funeral home that have been damaged or are incomplete in some way,” said . “The 3D printing technique enables a more accurate and easier repair process.”3D printing uses successive layers of materials to create a three-dimensional product. Conceptually, the technology could be used to create limbs, hair or facial features that might be damaged on a corpse, or missing from it.According to Thursday’s article, use of 3D technology for a face recreation would cost about 4000-5000 yuan, or £430 to £540. Some funeral homes in the US and Europe have also employed 3D printing technology, but not for the deceased. One company, UPD Urns, has produced a video to attract customers to its .3D printing is booming in China. Foreign companies dominate the market for 3D manufacturing, but Chinese companies are catching up, according to , a market analyst.</content>
<class_name>China,3D printing,Death and dying,Asia Pacific,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:56:24+0100</date>
<title>Chinese funeral home 3D prints missing body parts for corpses</title>
<content> In the long term, I don’t think the question is “Why?”, it’s “When?” Eight months after launch, Windows 10 is running on 270m devices and it’s not going away. Some large organisations have already started to move, one of the most notable being the , which has started installing Windows 10 on 4m PCs.By contrast, we know that Windows 7 is going away:  will stop supporting it in 2020.Of course, Microsoft – like Apple and Google – would like everyone to use the latest version of its operating system. It has therefore encouraged early adoption by offering a free upgrade to  – again, like Apple and Google, except that Microsoft’s upgrade offer is only available for a year.Either way, once you have installed Windows 10, it will be updated free for the life of your device. There will (probably) never be a  11, because Microsoft is now producing two small updates each year instead of one big update every three years.Whether it’s worth upgrading now depends on what sort of PC you have, but the more mobile, the better. If you have an old desktop PC with no touchscreen, no camera and no microphone, there are fewer benefits. (The touchscreen isn’t essential, it’s just nice to have.) If you have a modern Windows laptop or 2-in-1 with , the upgrade is more attractive.I say “the more mobile, the better” because Windows 10 is a mobile operating system. I know this upsets people who think their PCs should work just like they did in a previous century, but the whole technology world is changing and Windows is changing along with it. Microsoft’s boss Satya Nadella keeps repeating his “” mantra, and Windows will continue to become increasingly mobile and cloud-aware.The other thing to bear in mind is that we are in an ecosystem war that Microsoft wants to win. The main alternative ecosystems are run by Apple and Google. However, Apple’s approach is mostly “Apple only” (apart from iTunes), while Google’s is mostly “cloud only” (apart from Chrome). Both support only a very limited range of devices.By contrast, Microsoft is building an ecosystem that supports both on-premise and cloud operation, and that runs across all three ecosystems: it has dozens of apps for Android and Apple’s iOS, and is increasing its support for  and . Windows runs on everything from USB sticks, games consoles and smartphones to giant server farms, and there’s an  version for the Raspberry Pi and other devices.If you only use one old desktop PC, you will get limited benefits from the Windows ecosystem. If you have a lot of different types of device, you will get more benefits from Windows 10 and all the related apps and cloud-based services such as Outlook.com and Office 365.Depending on your hardware, a straight upgrade from Windows 7 to 10 may offer some benefits. These start with smoother and sometimes faster operations, more economical use of memory and disk space, increased security (SmartScreen, Windows Defender, encryption), and the integration of OneDrive cloud storage.File Explorer is a better file manager, and DirectX 12 promises better gaming. Task View makes it easier to access running programs. Virtual desktops, which were easily added, are now built in. The system refresh and reset options make it simpler to maintain your PC.Windows 10 also includes the new Edge browser, though IE11 is still there, hidden away. You can also search the internet from your desktop.Further, Windows 10 provides better built-in support for newer types of hardware including secure boot capabilities with UEFI, USB 3.0, Bluetooth adapters, high-definition screens (ie better scaling), and solid state drives (eg NVMe).With UEFI, Windows 10 machines boot up and resume from sleep dramatically faster than Windows 7. Almost instant-on was needed for smartphone and tablet use, of course, but it still benefits PC users.Many Windows 10 features aren’t available on Windows 7. The most obvious are Cortana, an AI-based personal assistant, notifications and Windows Store apps. All three migrated from the smartphone world. There’s also Windows Hello, where your PC logs you on when it sees your face. However, that requires a camera compatible with Intel’s RealSense.Windows Store apps – first introduced with Windows 8 – are written to a new application programming interface called Windows RunTime, not the traditional Win32 API. Windows Store apps are remotely installed and updated (like Android and iOS apps), run in secure sandboxes and can be cleanly uninstalled. “Universal” apps run on PCs, Windows smartphones and the Xbox One games console.Windows 10 includes RunTime apps for Mail, Photos, Maps, Calendar, Groove Music and so on. You can download more from the 700,000 apps in the Windows Store. The quality is variable but they include free Microsoft Office apps, Adobe Photoshop Express, AutoDesk Pixlr, Code Writer, Dropbox, Flipboard, Fresh Paint, Line, Netflix, Notepad++, OneNote, Shazam, SkyScanner, TeamViewer Touch, Trello, TuneIn Radio, Viber and Wunderlist.There’s one faction of tech fans that claims all smartphone and tablet apps are crap and there’s no substitute for real software, while another faction reckons that smartphone and tablet apps can do everything so the whole PC industry is dead. Both are wrong but why argue? In principle, Windows 10 can offer the best of both worlds.You asked about the benefits of upgrading to Windows 10 and I’ve listed some immediate and some strategic (ecosystem) benefits. Even so, I don’t expect everybody to upgrade every PC. For example, my work desktop has no microphone, no camera, no touchscreen, no UEFI, it’s never turned off and it’s mainly used for Microsoft Office, photo processing and web browsing. It might stay on Windows 7 forever. But my touchscreen tablets and laptops get upgraded as soon as possible.Only you can decide whether you want to jump in now or wait until you buy a new PC, which will have been designed to run Windows 10, and should make much better use of its new features.Also, Windows 10 has improved a lot since its launch and while you wait, it should keep getting better. If you’re a “late adopter” or otherwise averse to change, you can stick with Windows 7 until . It’s your decision.However, if that’s what you want, it’s a good idea to follow . This involves editing the registry, but Steve Gibson’s  will do the job without installing any software. You can delete it after using it.</content>
<class_name>Windows,Windows 7,Microsoft,Computing,Software,Windows 10,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:58:19+0100</date>
<title>Why should I upgrade from Windows 7 to 10?</title>
<content>Apple released iOS 9.3, the latest version of its  and iPad software – including a much-anticipated night mode.The free update is available for all iPhones and iPads currently running a version of iOS 9, including the iPhone 4S, iPad 2 and  mini or newer.The new version includes multiple updates to the CarPlay system for in-car entertainment connectivity, the ability to secure apps such as Apple’s Notes app with a fingerprint sensor and greater personalisation options for the company’s News app.But the biggest change is the addition of Night Shift, a mode which reduces the amount of blue light emitted by the screen. Certain wavelengths of blue light are thought to disrupt your circadian rhythm by tricking your body into thinking it is still daylight outside.That makes it harder to fall asleep. By tuning the display colours to a warmer, more reddish tone, it reduces the amount of blue light emitted and should, in theory, reduce the impact of looking at an iPad or iPhone screen before bed.Night Shift can kick in automatically at sunset and start reducing blue light until the morning, when it restores the natural colour balance of the screen.There have been third-party apps available to do just that for computers for years, and third-party apps perform a similar duty  and other smartphones, but this is the first time Apple has baked in the function for it to work on iOS devices.Apple has also improved the visualisation of health data collected by the Health app, including providing more information on sleep, weight and workout tracking, displaying stand, movement and exercise from a connected Apple Watch. The changes moving Health closer to being the one-stop-shop for displaying all your health data from third-party apps that  originally marketed it as.Apple has also made changes to the way iPads can be used in schools, improving management of the tablets, allowing them to be shared between students and a new Classroom app, which will help teachers guide kids through work by seeing what is displayed on their iPads. 9.3 will be available to download through iTunes or via the Settings app from today.</content>
<class_name>iOS,Apple,iPad,iPhone,Smartphones,Software,Tablet computers,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-21T23:43:17+0000</date>
<title>iOS 9.3 now available with Night Shift mode to help you sleep</title>
<content>If anyone tries to tell you that daily brain training is a digital thing, hit them (gently) with a rolled-up newspaper that then opens to the crosswords page.That said, ever since the fictitious Dr Kawashima got people exercising their grey cells with a Nintendo DS, the brain-training genre has been popular on handheld devices.  and tablets are no exception.The main brain-training apps stick to the same format: collections of mini-games that promise to test various mental skills; pretty graphs to show how you’re improving over time; and optional subscriptions for extra games and features.The scientific rigour of their claims to better your brain can be controversial: one, Lumosity,  for example. But as a daily habit that feels worthier than Candy Crush Saga, they can be fun. Here are five worth a try.Peak is the slickest brain-training app available, with a polished collection of mini-games covering subjects including memory, language, mental agility and… what was it again? Oh yes: attention.There are more than 30 to play in total, with enough variety to stop your daily session from becoming a chore. The free app has plenty to do, but a £3.99 monthly subscription lets you play all the games as often as you like, personalises your daily “workouts” and gives you more stats.Elevate is a strong rival to Peak: it has similarly clear visuals and simple, accessible mini-games to test your wits against. There are more than 30 here testing memory, focus, maths, comprehension and other mental skills.The app is keen to get you logging in regularly, tracking your “streaks” on its calendar, and tweaking the difficulty levels as you become more adept. Here too, a Pro subscription (for £5.99 a month) unlocks more games, and lets you play them as often as you like.The veteran of the bunch, and the service that set many of the features that are now familiar from its rivals. Here, a selection of mini-games are mixed and matched into a daily programme, with the obligatory stat-tracking to show your improvement over time.As with those rivals, a monthly subscription – £8.99 in this case – unlocks more games and features. On mobile, Lumosity is more expensive, but the fact that you can use its website from your computer too may appeal.Another fresh, modern take on brain training for mobile devices, Fit Brains Trainer has more than 35 games, grouped into different workout sessions to keep your daily practice from feeling stale, whether you’re testing your memory, concentration, language or other skills.One interesting addition here is games based on your “emotional intelligence” (EQ) – an aspect that’s more to the fore than with rivals. Like Lumosity, you can also log in to the website from a computer to carry on playing. A £7.99 monthly subscription unlocks the full features.Cognito is the most game-like of the five apps in this roundup, wrapping a story of sorts – secret agents and global spying missions – around its brain-training tests. It still has all the serious features of the genre though: memory, logic and word mini-games, and stats tracking how your skills improve over time.It also promises to pull in data like steps and sleep from Apple’s Health app, to show you how exercise and shut-eye affect your mental agility. As with its rivals, you can play for free every day, but a subscription – £5.99 a month – beefs up the data and gives you unlimited access to the games.</content>
<class_name>Apps,Smartphones,Mobile phones,Tablet computers,iPhone,iPad,Android,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T12:28:37+0000</date>
<title>Five of the best brain-training apps</title>
<content>Facebook is a website, and all the data for your page is stored on various Facebook servers in giant data centres. It is not stored on your PC or on your phone: they are just ways to access it online.To , you must log on to your account, then go to the “Delete my account” page at  and click the big blue button.The  says: “When you delete your account, people won’t be able to see it on Facebook. It may take up to 90 days to delete all of the things you’ve posted, like your photos, status updates or other data stored in backup systems. While we are deleting this information, it is inaccessible to other people using Facebook.” If you change your mind and log on later, you will be offered the chance to reactivate your account, but some or all of your data may have been deleted.Before you delete your Facebook page, it’s a good idea to download a copy of your data. To do this, click the downward-facing triangle and select Settings from the drop-down menu. When the page loads, click the text that says “Download a copy of your Facebook data.” Facebook will email you when your data is ready to download.Otherwise, consider deactivating your account rather than deleting it. The effect is exactly the same as far as your friends are concerned: you and your data disappear from Facebook. However, you can re-activate your account if you change your mind.You can’t easily close an account unless you can log on to it. But how many email addresses do you have? Too many to try them all?Go to the “Find Your Account” page at and try entering the email addresses and/or phone numbers you usually use, your user name or your full name and search for your account.If you can’t find it, get a Facebook friend or family member to help. Ask them to go to your Facebook page, click on About and look for your email address under “Contact Information”. If you didn’t make your email address visible, ask them to send you the internet address (the URL) of your page. This will tell you your username, which you can enter in the “Find Your Account” page.For example, if your user name was John Doe, then your Facebook page would probably be at https://www.facebook.com/John.DoeThere is a way to , but you have to create a new Facebook account to do it. In this case, navigate to your old account and Report/Block it. Next, choose “This is my old profile” and then “Close this account”. Facebook says: “the profile will be reviewed and deactivated after we’re able to verify that it’s your old account”.There is no way to merge two accounts.People who are likely to forget their names, passwords and email addresses should add one or more “”. To do this, go to the Settings page, select Security (on the left) and then click on “Trusted Contacts”. This allows you to choose from three to five people – unfortunately, three is the minimum. If you ever have a problem accessing your account, you can ask for a security code to be sent to a trusted friend. They pass the code to you so that you can use it to access your account.Your Facebook account is tied to your email address and/or phone number, not your real name, because there may be hundreds or thousands of people with exactly the same name. You must therefore think carefully about which email address and/or phone number you want to use in future. Remember, you cannot use the same ones, because Facebook will reactivate your old account, instead of creating a new one.Before you delete your account, get a back-up of your data, as described above. After that, go to your account settings and change the key entries to something you don’t want. It’s most important to change your email address to another working email address – you can create one for the purpose. You can also change your real name, your user name, and possibly your password. (Changing your password will stop your smartphone and tablet apps from logging in.)The settings for “Account security” may also contain a list of “registered devices” that are associated with your account. You may want to remove those as well.Remember, when you create a new account, Facebook will do its best to reactivate your old account, based on whatever data was in the old account.Note that when you delete your old account, you will lose all your friends, photos, messages, comments, favourites, games and other data. You will also lose access to user groups and so on. Make sure you keep a record of everything you want to get back.Also, tell your important friends that you intend to delete your old Facebook account and create a new one. If you don’t, they may think you are being impersonated by a scammer and report you. If they have already confirmed that you are a friend, they won’t expect to get another friend request, unless you warn them.If you do all this, then you should eventually be able to create a new account, with your preferred email address and user name. I wouldn’t expect this to work until your old information has been flushed from Facebook’s system. That could take about two weeks, but it might take a month or more.You could, of course, create a new account and then Report/Block the old account, as described above. However, I prefer my method. First, it’s against Facebook’s terms and conditions to create more than one personal account. Second, you would not be able to create a new account with your old user name and email address. Third, you’d have to rely on Facebook to verify and deactivate the old account, instead of being able to do it yourself.</content>
<class_name>Facebook,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-17T09:21:19+0000</date>
<title>How can I delete my Facebook account and start afresh with a new one?</title>
<content>At a small gathering at its Cupertino headquarters, Apple unveiled new products, including an upgraded 4in iPhone called the  SE, and a new, smaller, iPad Pro to replace the iPad Air 2. It also officially released its iOS 9.3 software, launched “CareKit” for patients to use their iPhones in healthcare, and got excited about nylon watch bands.The iPhone SE is basically an iPhone 5S body with the guts of an iPhone 6S inside.It’s launching at $399/£359 for a 16GB model, but . The 64GB model is $499/£439. It’ll be available for order from March 24, and available from March 31.Apple has introduced a “smaller iPad Pro”, with a 9.7in display. What makes this different from a new iPad Air, you ask? Well,  gives us a lot of answer:It has a “pro display”, which tries to match the colour temperature of the surrounding environment. It has “pro audio”, with four speakers, like the larger iPad Pro. It has “pro performance”, running the same A9X as the larger iPad Pro. It supports “pro accessories”, such as the iPad Pro keyboard and the Apple Pencil. It has the “most advanced iPad camera yet” (even better than larger  Pro’s, but with the trade-off of an iPhone 6-style camera nubbin).Oh, and it also has a pro price: $599 for the 32GB version, an extra $200 on top of the iPad Air 2, which has had $100 cut from its price. It’s shipping on the 31st of March. Larger models are available at 128GB for $749 and 256GB for $899.. It includes Night Shift, which makes the screen warmer in colour as the night draws in. It also lets you lock the Notes app with TouchID, and gives you a few new ways of viewing health data.A price cut for the , a year after launch, which will now retail for $299 down from $349.People like changing their watch bands, apparently, so Tim Cook says that “today we’re introducing some new colours and a new band made from all new materials”. It’s woven nylon.A small tvOS update launching today: you can put your apps in folders, and finally access iCloud Photo Library on your Apple TV.CEO Tim Cook began by discussing the company’s forthcoming legal conflict with the FBI. “We build the iPhone for you, our customers, and we know that it is a deeply personal device. For many of us, the iPhone is an extension of ourselves.“We need to decide as a nation how much power the Government should have over our data and over our privacy,” said Cook.“We did not expect to be in this position at odds with our own government but we believe strongly that we have a responsibility to help you protect your data and to help you protect your privacy.”“We will not shrink from this responsibility.”CareKit is the follow-up to ResearchKit, which allows medical researchers to build big data research programmes around iOS.This time, doctors and surgeons can build apps which allow patients to manage their own care or recovery. The framework is launching with an app aimed at Parkinson’s patients, and another app which will help people recover from surgery.This will be the last event in Apple’s old HQ! Next year, they’ll be in their Halo campus, down the road in Cupertino.</content>
<class_name>Apple,iPhone,iPad,Apple Watch,Gadgets,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-21T19:20:31+0000</date>
<title>Key points of Apple's iPhone SE launch at a glance</title>
<content>UK radio is in a bit of a mess. At this point, I would be reluctant to make a “reasonable investment” in a radio. I’d probably look for something cheap and cheerful that could be relegated to another room or junked.There are two extra problems for DAB radio buyers: the arrival of DAB+, and the BBC’s move to  (Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP). All new radios should support both. If not, it should be possible to upgrade the set to support them.With DAB, digital radio is transmitted using an old MP2 codec. The UK uses MP2 with such low bit-rates that the sound quality is inferior to FM radio. MP2 is less efficient than MP3, used by Napster, which is much less efficient than AAC, used by Apple’s iTunes.Sadly, the UK DAB industry clung to its antique technology instead of upgrading to DAB+, which allows AAC. I argued against this in the Guardian in , but it wasn’t until 2013 that DAB+ was added to the government’s . Even then, the spec only mandated a maximum of 96kbps for DAB+. That should have been the minimum.The result of all this lethargy/incompetence/denialism is that when the first DAB+ stations started broadcasting in the UK, on February 29, roughly two thirds of DAB radios couldn’t receive them.DAB was launched in the UK in 1995 but it still makes up only . Indeed, if you look at , many DAB radios still don’t support DAB+, and the best-selling radios are FM only! Analogue radios still outsell digital versions by a wide margin ().I still think buyers ought to go for future-proof DAB+ radios, some of which may sport the . But I don’t have much confidence in the future.Radio manufacturers haven’t always helped. To pick one example, the  is a good-looking mono radio at a not-so-cheap £89.99. The spec still says the UK version supports only DAB and FM but “non-UK products receive DAB/DAB+/DMB-Radio/FM depending on region”. I assume disabling DAB+ saves on license fees, but this kind of thing has not helped the already-backward UK market.Having said all that, the three new DAB+ stations – Magic Chilled, JazzFM Stereo and Fun Kids – are broadcasting at . It’s entirely typical of UK radio to introduce a new technology such as HE-AACv2 at the worst-possible audio quality, and to provide the least possible incentive to upgrade your old radio. Try comparing JazzFM with the HQ version of Smooth Jazz Florida streamed at .Internet streaming is the obvious way to get decent-sounding radio from anywhere in the world. Unfortunately, the BBC threw the UK and ex-pat markets into despair when it launched its Audio Factory about a year ago. (See my earlier answer: )At the time, the  said its long-term aim was to move streaming radio to the MPEG’s industry standard DASH format. Again, I think you should buy a radio that supports DASH, or one that can be upgraded to DASH, if you can find one.In the meantime, the BBC is providing 128kbps MP3 streams via Shoutcast. The  says this was chosen “following advice from a number of Internet Radio device manufacturers regarding the codec and streaming protocols supported by the largest possible number of their legacy devices. Newer Internet Radio devices should be able to make use of the HLS and/or MPEG-DASH protocols using the higher quality AAC+ codec.”Pure says its newer radios support the HLS format, which is a proprietary Apple system aimed at  products. This may suit you, as an iMac and iPad user.Adverts for actual radios seem strangely quiet on such matters, but people sometimes ask questions in comments on Amazon.DAB radios don’t usually support “listen again” – it’s usually provided by an app or by running a radio player in a web browser. It should be a feature of internet radios, which generally support DAB, FM and internet streaming. However, many internet radio users lost access to the BBC’s listen again services with the switch mentioned above.One possible answer would be to connect your iPad to your radio and use an iPad app to listen again. Some radios have iPhone docks or lightning connectors. If not, you could use a cable with a 30-pin Apple dock connector at one end and a dual 3.5mm jack or two RCA connectors at the other end, depending on the radio inputs available. Alternatively, you could use a Bluetooth connection if your radio has Bluetooth.Another way to listen again is to buy a DAB radio with a recording feature, so you can record programs you’d otherwise miss. Examples include the , the , and the Roberts Sound models ,  and . Prices range from around £100 to £275.I spent more than £300 on my FM radio tuner, but the results are outstanding and it was worth every penny. Today, I couldn’t honestly recommend spending anything like that on what amounts to a kitchen radio.Under normal circumstances, I’d suggest the  as being good value at , but it still seems to be awaiting an update for full radio iPlayer compatibility and DASH support, though the spec says it supports AAC.Otherwise, the main DAB radio brands include Pure, Roberts and Goodmans, so perhaps you can find a model that suits your needs via the DAB industry’s Get Digital Radio .In the cheap and cheerful category, you could try the  clock radio for £37.75. It can handle DAB, DAB+ and FM. It can also play MP3s and podcasts from SD/MMC cards, and it has a both a USB input, a 35mm AUX jack, and Bluetooth with NFC. Of course, at this price, it has small loudspeakers and you shouldn’t expect hi-fi sound quality. (I’ve not seen or heard one.)This kind of device usually uses the USB output for charging an attached smartphone or tablet. What you really want is a specification that says “USB socket for software upgrades”. From the comments, it seems the MB400 will play files from a USB stick, but it doesn’t show the tracks on screen.</content>
<class_name>Digital radio,Radio,Apple,iPad,Podcasting,BBC,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-10T15:21:40+0000</date>
<title>Can you give me some tips on buying a DAB radio?</title>
<content>There was no disturbance in the force, no voices crying out in surprise. Eleven years after the original Lego Star Wars game introduced the winning formula behind this phenomenally successful series of co-op puzzle platformers, no one was shocked when Warner Bros announced Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens. It was as inevitable as another Death Star.And it’s kind of what you expect: 18 levels and five hub areas, which closely reflect and tell the same story as the movie, picking out key action scenes for players to replicate and interspersing these with comedic cut-scenes that gently mock the source material. This is how UK studio Travellers Tales has dealt with every license that’s passed through its office, from Harry Potter to Indiana Jones, Lord of the Rings and the Lego Movie itself.The first point of interest, though, is that seven of those levels are entirely new creations. “They cover some of the events leading up to Episode Seven,” says producer Tim Wileman. “You’ll get the opportunity to take control of Han and Chewie as they capture rathtars; or control Lor San Tekka and work out how he got to Jakku.” The latter is one of the key questions that hovered about after the furst screenings of Force Awakens, so it’ll be interesting to see what answers this Lucasfilm-approved script comes up with. In a three-level demo shown to journalists this week, players start out guiding Rey and BB8 through the spaceship junkyards of Jakku, fighting other scavengers and solving simple puzzles to operate doors and machinery within a downed Star Destroyer to get through the level. Right from a start, there’s a great sense of authenticity. Each level begins with a Star Wars narrative crawl (apparently using exactly the right font, aspect ratio and vanishing point for the text), and all the creatures, craft and locations are rendered in loving detail. Traveller’s Tales says it has examined the movie and replicated beats and vehicles that may only get a glimpse of screen time. But it has also layered on its daft slapstick. In one section of a third level set in the Niima outpost, Rey and Finn have to escape the marketplace, and it’s filled with the weird aliens and rusty mechanical detritus we saw in the film. But there are also cute touches like stormtroopers in the background, trying out straw hats from a souvenir stall. As ever, all the characters have their own skills. Rey can jump higher than other characters as well as wall jump and wall run to access higher areas. BB8 can get into small ducts and tunnels as well as interface with computers, instigating little hacking mini-games that lift barriers for other characters. There will be over 200 Star Wars characters to unlock, not just from the Force Awakens, but also from previous movies and the expanded Star Wars universe . On top of this, players will be able to use the regular customisation tool to create their own combinations.There are some new elements to the familiar action. In the sections where players have to build models to solve puzzles, Force Awakens provides a selection of possible kits rather than simply requiring you to hit a button to build. Sometimes it’s about working out which of the models is the only correct option, but other times, players get some freedom to build the model they like then figure out how to use it. It’s a teeny upgrade to the limited building element of the game, but it will at least add an extra layer of complexity. More obvious are the new flight combat levels, which let you take control of the Millennium Falcon as well as X-Wings and Tie-Fighters, piloting them in open-world dog fight battles over familiar areas like the Takodana rebel base. In the second level of the game, you need to escape Jakku in the Falcon, piloting it through the wrecked hulls of Star Destroyers. It’s an on-rails section with limited movement but you get to swoop about and target Tie Fighters, while accompanied by Rey and Finn’s excited whoops. Combat has also been overhauled. Now there will be cover shooter sections where you need to hide behind and use scenery to beat larger numbers of enemies. Players can build gun turrets as well as shoot or pull down scenic objects to squish opponents. These sections are slightly more tactical too: “sometimes you may see a First Order engineer coming out instead of a regular stormtrooper,” says lead story designer, Graham Goring. “You’ll know that they will probably try to build a blaster turret so you have to deal with them first. Or you may see a guy on a lugger beast who will keep calling in reinforcements until you take him out. It just adds a little more thought to those sections.” Characters also get a unique special attack, accessible via a gauge that powers up while fighting. So far though, it’s the incidental stuff that’s proving most charming. There’s a wonderful Kylo Ren cut-scene, based around his Darth Vader monologue, that really taps into the whole Emo Kylo Ren joke. The levels are filled with easter eggs too, whether thats finding and putting on a gonk droid outfit (which also makes the robot’s signature noise) to making little Star Wars Micro Builds that characters can fly or skateboard about on, there are loads of little references and in-jokes. Adding to the authenticity is the fact that several major cast members have recorded new dialogue to accompany the game sections. We only heard Daisy Ridley in the demo, but Warner Bros has promised some massive news about the full cast list later on. While the demo levels show that Traveller’s Tales hasn’t strayed a whole galaxy away from the conventions of its series, there are some new features to get to grips with. Flight combat feels a little chaotic, but it changes the pace, while the additional multi-build sections hint at slightly greater puzzle complexity while stopping short of actually offering any sort of creative control to the player.The pleasure though will likely come from the close approximation of these new Star Wars places and characters, infused with knockabout humour. Like the movie itself, Lego Star Wars: Force Awakens looks to be about playing with the conventions, but ensuring that fans get what they want – even if that means repetition.  </content>
<class_name>Games,PlayStation,PlayStation 4,Xbox,Xbox One,PC,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T13:57:26+0000</date>
<title>Lego Star Wars: The Force Awakens – the next generation of Lego games?</title>
<content>PS4, Xbox One, PC, Square Enix, cert: 18★★★★Episodic gaming has long been dominated by narrative-driven puzzle adventures, making it hard to imagine the format being used for anything else. Enter , a pseudo-reboot of the series that simultaneously refines its stealth-focused gameplay while also delivering bite-sized portions of assassination action. A training mission prologue delves into the origins of Agent 47, the genetically enhanced titular hitman, before turning you loose in Paris to dispatch a fashion designer with designs on exposing undercover MI6 agents. Although missions have specific goals, the game excels by offering almost total freedom in how to execute them. Infiltrate a party in disguise and poison a target, or arrange unfortunate accidents to take them out. Successfully carrying out a hit without arising suspicion is a near-delirious thrill.Although this first chapter is fairly short, the opportunity to repeat missions and explore different methods adds significant replay value, while the shadowy plot will have gamers eagerly awaiting future episodes. Nintendo 3DS, Capcom, cert: 7★★★★For anyone yet to explore the world that established Mega Man as a hero of the video game form, Capcom’s latest collection is almost certainly the best opportunity yet. It is also one not to be missed. The Mega Man games did plenty to define the action-platformer genre in the 1980s and 90s, and Capcom’s  offers direct, untainted ports of the series’ first six games. Considering here the downloadable 3DS version, rather than the console releases, Nintendo’s handheld reproduces Mega Man’s famously tight controls and gives something of a history lesson in why the robot protagonist stands as a reference point for refined game design.There’s also a vast database of background information, and a selection of remixed stages to tackle, along with a smattering of carefully picked updates, such as save functionality. There’s obviously not a great deal new in the collection, but these remarkably authentic reissues of a defining series in its finest years still offers the chance to revel in some perfect platforming. Nintendo 3DS, Rising Star, cert: 12★★The setting for  could not be more intriguing, launching the player into a version of feudal Japan infused with dark mysticism. Here, the warlords of the era have been twisted into demonic forms by their karma, leaving it up to one of four heroes – a samurai, a ninja, a monk and a rogue – to cut a path through the armies of Oda Nobunaga and face the dark lord himself.All of which sounds great, but boils down to doing the same three-hit combo over and over again. ’s action-RPG gameplay is very light, repetitive and spread very thin. While each boss slain gives you a new spell and there’s bucketfuls of loot to collect, it’s a real grind to get anywhere on the massive skill tree.There are plus points, with ’s main strength being found in its visuals, combining top-down retro level design with a rich art style, while another neat feature uses the 3DS’s StreetPass feature to let you borrow other heroes to assist in battle, but ultimately  remains just a fairly pretty chore. </content>
<class_name>Games,Hitman: Agent 47,Retro games,Role playing games,Game culture,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T07:00:18+0100</date>
<title>Games reviews roundup: Hitman; Mega Man Legacy Collection; Ishi-Sengoku-Den: Sadame</title>
<content>The game developer Blizzard has altered a sequence in the forthcoming shooter Overwatch after fans complained that it needlessly sexualised a female character.In the contentious moment, a character named Tracer adopts a victory pose in which her rear is directed provocatively toward the camera.  argued on the game’s official forum that the pose is inconsistent with her character, as established in the game’s publicity and narrative. “This isn’t a character who is in part defined by flaunting her sexuality,” wrote the player, known only by his forum handle, Fipps. “This pose says to the player base, oh we’ve got all these cool diverse characters, but at any moment we are willing to reduce them to sex symbols to help boost our investment game.” to the complaint, seemingly acknowledging that the pose was an error. He told readers: “We’ll replace the pose. We want *everyone* to feel strong and heroic in our community. The last thing we want to do is make someone feel uncomfortable, under-appreciated or misrepresented.”This in turn sparked objections from some gamers, with many accusing Kaplan and Blizzard of censorship. Kaplan said: “We weren’t entirely happy with the original pose, it was always one that we wrestled with creatively. That the pose had been called into question from an appropriateness standpoint by players in our community did help influence our decision – getting that kind of feedback is part of the reason we’re holding a closed beta test – but it wasn’t the only factor.“We made the decision to go with a different pose in part because we shared some of the same concerns, but also because we wanted to create something better.”The removal of sexualised themes and imagery from video games has become a hot topic in the industry. Nintendo last year  of one female character in the western release of the role-playing title Xenoblade Chronicle X, and Capcom was accused of toning down suggestive poses in Street Fighter V for western audiences. Japanese publishers have a long history of altering content in localised versions of their games.Overwatch, which is in a beta testing process, giving a small audience of players early access to the code, has several other female characters. These include Widowmaker, who has retained her overtly sexualised imagery and stances.  </content>
<class_name>Sex in games,Games,Game culture,PlayStation,PlayStation 4,Xbox,Xbox One,PC,Women,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T16:43:46+0100</date>
<title>'Sexy' pose removed from Overwatch game after fans complain</title>
<content>he Oculus Rift isn’t the first of the new generation of virtual reality (VR) headsets to go on sale – that was Samsung’s Gear VR – and it will face stiff competition in 2016 from HTC’s Vive and Sony’s PlayStation VR among other devices.Still, the consumer launch of the Rift, with its parent company now a $2bn subsidiary of , is still a big moment for the latest rebirth of VR.First-day reviewers were broadly impressed by the headset: common themes in reviews include the comfort of the device; its easy setup process – if you have the necessary (expensive) PC of course – and the sheer wow factor of the VR delivered.Quibbles include its high price; a launch lineup that doesn’t include some of the most exciting Rift games that have been shown off in recent months; and the odd complaint about motion sickness in some of the more hardcore games. praised the industrial design’s “clever and thoughtful touches”, said it’s easier to set up than previous developer versions, and noted that VR “feels like an addition, not a transformation” for the first crop of games. The overall impression was good though: liked the feel of the Rift – “there are no pain points, even after long sessions” – but also said early buyers may have to wait for the killer games and software. “The pipeline of games and experiences coming this year is frankly astonishing, and opens the Rift up to many more people,” he promised. gave the Rift high marks for its comfort and immersive capabilities, but pointed to the high price of the headset plus the necessary PC as a limit on its appeal for now: was one of several reviewers to point out that the Rift may be a bit more awkward to use for glasses-wearers, but praised the hardware design and ease of installation. He, like others, suggested that the Oculus “loading program” – the software that boots up when you switch on – feels a bit beta for now: works for a site that’s covered the Rift in the most depth since its days as a Kickstarter project, and his review is suitably comprehensive, while noting that the Touch controllers will really see lift-off for the device: had mixed views, calling the Rift “a complete feast for the senses” but noting that he wasn’t a fan of the Xbox One controller included with the headset: he like others can’t wait for the delayed Oculus Touch controllers to come out later in the year. He agreed with Rubin that the launch games are “largely just OK”, with the best titles coming later in 2015 too: said it took a few days to get used to the Rift headset, and noted some “early rough edges” that were reminders of this being a first-generation (for consumers, at least) device. However, he agreed with other reviewers on the comfort of the headset even when worn for long periods: was the most downbeat of the launch-day reviewers: “A week with the Rift showed me it still needs to dig itself out of some deep holes,” he wrote, suggesting that only serious gamers will want to own one for now: acknowledged that the Rift would be snapped up by early adopters now, but may take time to reach the rest of us – contrasting its current appeal to hardcore gamers with the “consumer-friendly” Samsung Gear VR: suggested that the high price and hardcore nature of some of the launch titles are positioning the Rift as a hardcore device, but ended up seduced by the sheer fun of playing in virtual reality:</content>
<class_name>Virtual reality,Gadgets,Facebook,Digital media,Games,Virtual worlds,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T11:42:09+0100</date>
<title>Oculus Rift review roundup: VR wow factor despite high price</title>
<content>These days, we are our devices – or maybe our devices are us.Whatever way we look at it, the powerful little computers that we carry around in our pockets give us everything. We want for nothing. We shop on them, get our news, talk to our friends (verbally or by text, messenger app, Whatsapp, email), find our partners – romantic / sexual / other (Tinder, Happn), we broadcast images of ourselves and the world around us (Snapchat, Instagram), we telegraph our thoughts (Twitter, Facebook), maps pop up to tell us where to eat and where to shop, we stream music and talks that we listen to as we walk.They wake us in the morning. And many of us sleep with them next to us on the pillow.Take our devices away from us and we are weak, hopeless, anxious and bereft. To live without them is unthinkable.In Golem by UK production company 1927, the titular device is like a phone, combined with an interactive avatar that is super powerful. Golem version one is a bit rough. It’s a massive clay man with a big, swinging dick and sturdy trunk. It does your work, shops for you and tells you that, really, no-one has worn that style of shoe since the 70s, so maybe it’s time for an update. Golem two is faster, cuter, more efficient, like a streamlined Oompa Loompa. Golem version three takes out the middleman and is a chip you implant in your brain.Golem says: “Why be a nobody when you can be an everybody?” It’s a refrain that runs through this thrilling theatre production which had a string of five star reviews at the Young Vic in London and was a recent hit at the Adelaide festival, before coming to the Sydney  Company.Golem is an old story, a  of how man creates machine out of clay to serve him. We can all guess what happens next.The setting is a fantastically drab and dull Britain. It’s a Britain of libraries, a job in the stationery department, hand-knitted clothing, where everything is “smashing”, and the characters live off a grim high street – where the greasy spoon cafe sells bone jelly in broth.Our protagonist is Robert Robertson, who works a Kafkaesque job coding at Binary Backup, and lives with his grandmother and sister, Annie. The siblings have a punk band – Annie and the Underdogs – that don’t perform outside their basement due to anxiety issues. Their house is dirty. Their personalities are quirky. They are the nobodies Golem is exhorting to become everybodies.So when Robert purchases a Golem (version one) from an old school chum, everything changes. Suddenly much of his decision-making is outsourced to Golem. He buys trendy yellow shoes, becomes more assertive at work, even dates a colleague, and later joins a dating app on the promise of even better women out there (why have just one, when you can have more?). We know Robert has changed irrevocably when members of his band hear him listening to U2 in the bath and begin to question his commitment to anarchist punk.His retort: Do you want to be a nobody or an everybody?His Golem is no benign monster. Golem reads the Daily Mail and wonders if “we” should “let them in”? He loves Benedict Cumberbatch, and begins to talk like an advert (“you can save a pretty penny”).The vibe of the play is part Beetlejuice, part Terry Gilliam, part the damp Britain of Pinter and Larkin and part Madeleine L’Engle’s A Wrinkle in Time.This is a significant work of theatre not just for the ideas, brilliant and funny acting, quirky and memorable script (boasting many, many great lines), but because it is truly innovative.Loads of productions incorporate elements of projection, clay animation and the ascetics of a graphic novel, but none as seamlessly and breathtaking as this. It’s as if we are seeing a new way of telling stories that has finally caught up with how we live: not linear but deeply embedded in a matrix of images, advertisements, machines and virtual reality.The message – that the digital world has created a monster, and we are complicit in giving all our power away to our machines – comes wrapped in a very entertaining package, albeit with moments of repetition and heavy-handedness. It loses one star for making the same point several times about how materialist our culture is, and the detrimental effects of not thinking for yourself.We get it ... or do we? We all walk around carrying our Golems in our pockets. We happily enslave ourselves to masters, our little devices.</content>
<class_name>Adelaide festival 2016,Theatre,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-14T04:51:10+0000</date>
<title>Golem review – tyranny of technology in a fantastically drab and dull Britain</title>
<content>he hype about the information age has been going on for so long that you’d assume all  innovation these days is based on apps and the internet, rather than sophisticated physical engineering: bits, not atoms. It has got to the stage where many tech startups look like parodic solutions in search of problems, as with the dozens of companies hoping to become the  for laundry. Yet the most intriguing figure among the Valley’s billionaire entrepreneurs right now makes incredibly elaborate machines: electric cars and space rockets. While  wants to change the world by enabling you to see more baby photos, the man who glories in the sci-fi name of  wants to change the world by solving transport and global warming, and establishing a colony on Mars.  took inspiration from a visit to Musk’s rocket factory for his portrayal of ’s Tony Stark. “My mind is not easily blown,” Downey Jr reported, “but this place and this guy were amazing.” Musk has also been a guest star on . So who exactly is he, and can he be serious?Musk was born in Pretoria, South Africa in 1971. His troubled father made his childhood “a kind of misery”, but he was also free to experiment with building home-made rockets in the company of his cousins. At the age of 12 he published in a magazine the code for a video game he had written. He moved to Canada at 17 and worked odd manual jobs before winding up at the University of Pennsylvania, where he took degrees in both physics and economics. Soon afterwards Musk co‑founded an early internet-mapping company called Zip2, and when Compaq bought it in 1999 he made $22m (£15m). He ploughed most of it into his next venture, an internet-banking startup that would become . In Ashlee Vance’s fascinating and superbly researched biography, one Musk admirer describes this decision as representing “an insane amount of personal risk. When you do a deal like that, it either pays off or you end up in a bus shelter somewhere.” In a bus shelter, that is, with the $4m Musk had reserved for his personal use. Some Valley people do rather lack perspective. When PayPal in turn was eventually bought by eBay in 2002, Musk found himself with more than $100m at his disposal.Time to retire? Not a bit of it. Musk pumped nearly all of this money into the two ventures for which he is known today: the electric-car company Tesla Motors (Musk was an early investor and board chairman before becoming CEO), and the rocket company . (He also has a solar-panel company, .) These business decisions were thrillingly contrary to the prevailing wisdom of bits over atoms. Tesla was based in Silicon Valley, and SpaceX opened its factory in the middle of Los Angeles, where tattooed engineers worked on rocket engines to a deafening soundtrack of Van Halen. As Vance describes it, Musk “doubled down on making super-complex physical goods in two of the most expensive places in the world”.For years, however, both companies were near-jokes, and people were waiting to see Musk fail. Tesla was late delivering its first electric supercars to celebrity customers, while SpaceX’s test rockets kept blowing up. But Musk persevered. Tesla now sells nearly 50,000 cars a year. And SpaceX became the first private company in history to launch a rocket into orbit; in 2013 it successfully delivered its first commercial satellite. It now has a long and profitable roster of launch missions planned for government agencies, for  (to resupply the International Space Station), and satellite companies. No one is laughing any more. As Musk’s former eBay comrade Peter Thiel tells Vance: “To the extent that the world still doubts Elon, I think it’s a reflection on the insanity of the world and not on the supposed insanity of Elon.”Musk is, everyone says, a genius, able to solve complex orbital equations in his head and successfully perform the job of any given engineer in his companies. (Friends affectionately report his habit of falling silent and thinking about rocket problems.) Like many modern geek entrepreneurs – most notoriously the late  – he also has an abrasive management style, sometimes insulting brilliant colleagues and firing people without warning. Vance makes a valiant attempt to explain: “He sees man as self-limiting and in peril and wants to fix the situation. The people who suggest bad ideas during meetings or make mistakes at work are getting in the way of all this [...] he feels pained by their mistakes, which have consigned man to peril that much longer.”Yet Musk also seems much more like a regular human being than many other tech CEOs. One investor calls him “nicer than Jobs and a bit more refined than ”. He is interested in more than just tech: he follows the New York Review of Books on Twitter, where his profile gives his location, in an accurate joke, as “1 AU”. (An astronomical unit is defined as the average distance between the sun and Earth.) He shares custody of his five sons with his former wife, Justine Musk. (He subsequently married, divorced and remarried the British actor Talulah Riley.) Though evidently immensely driven, Musk can be self-mocking and surprisingly funny. “No man is an island,” he likes to say, “unless he is large and buoyant.” And he tells the story of contracting a dangerous bout of malaria while on holiday: “That’s my lesson for taking a vacation: vacations will kill you.”Meanwhile he is engagingly rude about some of his peers, particularly the founder and CEO of Amazon, Jeff Bezos. “I do think Bezos has an insatiable desire to be King Bezos,” Musk tells Vance. “He has a relentless work ethic and wants to kill everything in . But he’s not the most fun guy, honestly.” Bezos has funnelled some of his own vast fortune into a rival space company, . Forget yachts: spaceships are the new trophy craft of the super-rich. But as Vance points out, Musk had to build SpaceX from the ground up as a real commercial outfit.Musk didn’t invent the rocket, nor the electric car. But he did, with his fellow engineers, reinvent them. Most crucially, he made them good enough, cheaply enough. Teslas are the first electric cars to solve “range anxiety”: the company’s battery-pack tech gives its cars 200 to 300 miles between charges. (Electric cars, of course, don’t solve the climate problem by themselves: the electricity you charge them with still has to be generated somehow. Ideally, for a Musk lifestyle addict, it will be generated by your home installation of SolarCity panels. In any case, getting machines that burn fossil fuels off the streets is an important step.) The most crucial innovation SpaceX made in rocket design, meanwhile, was the audacious decision to build nearly everything itself. Insourcing became the new outsourcing. By designing and constructing almost all the parts from engines to electronics, SpaceX could shave chunks off the prices demanded by external suppliers, while being able to iterate and change things in the designs very quickly when needed.Today the word “philanthropy”, which means love of mankind, is reserved to describe the actions of rich people who receive tax breaks for donating money to art galleries or carefully chosen charities. The term implies that only those who have acquired lots of wealth and then disgorge it to carefully selected institutions can truly love their fellow humans. Among giants of the tech industry it is more accurately applied, at least, to someone like Gates, whose foundation is attacking problems of the global poor such as malaria. But philanthropy can take more forms still. A medical researcher, or even a novelist, might be philanthropic in her motivations. And so too, by all accounts, is Musk.Musk’s philanthropy, though, does not consist in giving his billions away, but in trying to make his businesses succeed in order to save humanity from civilisational collapse or planetary extinction. As , SpaceX’s president and COO, describes the company’s mission: “If you hate people and think human extinction is okay, then fuck it. Don’t go to space. If you think it is worth humans doing some risk management and finding a second place to go live, then you should be focused on this issue and willing to spend some money.”Perhaps it will all crash and burn. But Musk certainly can’t be accused of lowering his sights, or shirking what he conceives of as his responsibility. As he says to Vance about another side‑project: “I think this needs to be done, and I don’t see anyone else doing it.” Future generations might be glad he did.</content>
<class_name>Science and nature,Elon Musk,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-16T07:30:13+0000</date>
<title>Elon Musk by Ashlee Vance review – how one tech billionaire plans to save the world</title>
<content>he Light Blue began life back in 1895 when John Townsend started building bikes for Cambridge University students. He used to make about six a week in a converted dairy in the city. John’s great-grandson Lloyd now runs the firm, and most of its range is all about heritage and retro appeal. But not all the bikes are quite so old school. Take a look at the Darwin – it’s the modern evolution (ha!) of the long-distance touring bike. The frame is super durable steel – the tubing is Reynolds 725. The sloping top tube and wide-set handlebars give you a relaxed riding position to soak up the miles. In terms of gears you can choose between a derailleur or reliable hub. There are disc brakes and space for mudguards, racks and three drink cages. You certainly won’t go thirsty… ()</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-20T06:00:31+0000</date>
<title>The Light Blue Darwin Twin Peak: bike review</title>
<content> belong to two cycling clubs. One is women-only and the other is all-male except me. Team Glow prides itself on female empowerment, encouraging women to achieve more than they ever thought possible: whether riding 112 miles of the  or slogging up the 23% gradient of  in Cheshire without putting a foot down. From easy “A” rides, through Bs, Cs to dastardly Ds, women cheer you on all the way.It doesn’t work like that in Team Rioja. Zero allowances are made for new members’ weaknesses. “Stop mithering” is a favourite catchphrase of AK, a founder member. He once claimed he couldn’t physically pedal as slowly as me on some climbs.I found myself on a mountain bike staring down a black run at  in north Wales. I was deeply unhappy that the lads were taking me on the hardest, most technical trail when they knew I’d only been on a mountain bike twice before. Luckily, Dykesy, a stalwart who thinks road cycling is for pansies, had recommended an MTB up to the job, even if I wasn’t.The  is an entry-level hardtail, which has suspension only on the front forks. Hardtails are good for newbies, because they’re lighter, cheaper and mechanically simpler than full-suspension alternatives. Designed in Halifax, the Diva is very Yorkshire: efficient without being showy, doing a chuffing good job for a very fair price. Used to a carbon road bike, the aluminium frame didn’t feel light when huffing up the first three-mile climb, but I was glad of its substance down the steep trail as I realised I couldn’t avoid all the rocks and gaps in my path. I was thankful, too, for mid-size 27.5in wheels. They offer a smoother ride than old-school 26-ers, as do wide handlebars in the twists and turns.Aussie Addy, the most forgiving Riojan, saw the terror on my face and told me kindly there is nothing the Diva couldn’t handle. The RockShox forks would protect me from the force of ’Degla’s biggest boulders. The trick, he said, is to “pump” down when razzing over rollers and around berms, which helps gain speed without even needing to pedal.I almost enjoyed it. Then I had to go uphill. The Shimano SLX/Deore drivetrain offers a range of gears as wide as my panicked eyes, yet I still had to get off and push for the first time in a year — an indignity I blamed on the sausage rolls that had got me through the winter rather than the Diva. from £1,000 Lightweight custom butted aluminium with five-year warranty Shimano 27.5in RockShox XC30 Gold 120mm Shimano SLX/Deore Shimano M506 160mm/160mm Custom SDG women’s specific</content>
<class_name>Cycling,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-19T06:00:02+0000</date>
<title>Orange Diva 2016 bike review: ‘It’s very Yorkshire: doing a chuffing good job at a fair price’</title>
<content>British audio brand Marshall has taken its first steps into the wireless headphone world with a brand new version of its Major II, which is claims has over 30 hours of battery life.Marshall headphones have a pretty distinctive style, referencing the amplifier stacks for which the company is famed: square, black ear cups with Marshall’s textured pattern, white logo and a basic, retro look. I think they’re quite attractive as headphones go, and are much more slim and subtle than most others, but the vintage feel won’t suit everyone.The ear cups are held in place by thin wire arms and a flexible padded headband, covered with more fake leather texture. There are a few nice brass accents here and there.They are on-ear, rather than over-ear headphones. The small square pads press on your ear rather than cover them, sitting quite tightly on your head. The phones feel relatively light when on and don’t move around when you go about your day.Like any on-ear headphone they start to pinch a little for extended listening sessions, but they’re more comfortable than many I have tried. The band is also much more comfortable than some on-ear competitors, with a nice soft-touch covered foam padded strip sitting on your head.When not in use they can fold up to be quite compact, but don’t fold flat for travel. They feel pretty robust too, which means they should last well. Some lighter headphones feel a bit flimsy.There are only two buttons on the headphones. One is the power button on the right ear cup that also puts the headphones into pairing mode when pressed twice while on. The other is a button-cum-joystick on the corner of the left ear cup.The small metal nub can be pressed in to pause or play a track, up or down to adjust volume or side to side for skipping tracks. It’s a very satisfying way to control your music with a reassuring click and works better than most other single-button controls I’ve seen on Bluetooth headphones.Like most other Bluetooth headphones, the Major IIs also take a standard headphones cable, should the battery run out or you want to easily listen to something on a computer. But more interestingly, you can use that cable to play music to something else, using the headphones as a Bluetooth receiver.It means you can share whatever you’re listening to with a friend using a standard headphones cable, as you might want to on a plane, train or in the office.The headphones support apt-X for higher quality Bluetooth connections, if your smartphone supports it, but the standard Bluetooth connection was solid throughout my testing.The closed cups manage to block out a reasonable amount of background noise, despite being on-ear, and keep it from leaking out for all but the loudest listening, which is good because the Marshalls are tuned to be loud. They focus on bass and the mid-range, with quite a deep and direct sound for relatively small on-ear headphones.They suit rock music best, making listening quite a heavy experience, perfectly suited to tracks such as Eric Clapton’s Layla, Nirvana’s Smells Like Teen Spirit or Deep Purple’s Smoke on the water. On something like Alicia Keys Fallin’ they tend to accentuate the double bass and drums to the detriment of the vocals. Having said that, they take a good stab at something like Blue Sky Black Death’s Can’t Take it With Me or even Luciano Pavarotti’s Nessun Dorma, making them decent all-rounders for their size.Marshall reckons the Major IIs will last 30 hours between charges, and I think they might be slightly underestimating that. I charged them and ran them for at least three hours in a working day for three weeks and they’re still going, which I reckon puts it well over 30 hours.That makes them a set of wireless headphones you can simply charge and forget. If the battery does run out you have the cable to connect with as a backup.The Marshall Major II Bluetooth headphones cost £130, which puts them at the low end of premium wireless headphones.  on-ear headphones cost £130, while other headphones with similar battery life and sound quality cost upwards of £150.  cost £330, for instance.Marshall’s first attempt at Bluetooth headphones are very good. They’ve got a loud and proud sound signature, which won’t suit every musical taste, but they sound great when fed driving music and even sound pretty good with ambient music.The battery life is truly great too, with well over 30 hours between charges making them very easy to live with. Most Bluetooth headphones that sound as good and last as long as these usually cost a lot more, making the Major IIs excellent. The only downside is they pinch a bit for long listening, which pretty much all on-ear headphones do.</content>
<class_name>Headphones,Gadgets,Digital music and audio,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-15T08:00:08+0000</date>
<title>Marshall Major II Bluetooth headphones: they last for ages and sound great too</title>
<content>verything is wrong: askew, false, unfamiliar or unaligned,” writes novelist  in an essay on Omer Fast, the Israeli-born, Berlin-based artist whose work is now being presented in  at Baltic in Gateshead.Filling two floors in a series of pitch black, carpeted installations, this selection of seven film and video works made since 2000 covers themes of sex and death, foreign wars and domestic violence. Fast also looks at memory and perception, loss and its traumatic aftermath, and where reality might be found. We know it is out there somewhere.Hundreds – perhaps thousands – of one-word clips taken from CNN newscasts run together in an 18-minute video that becomes one long soliloquy about how it feels to be alive now. With all its doubts and justifications, it is as if this message were always there, buried within news broadcasts as a secret, subliminal missive. Another message of Fast’s work could be that everything you think you know is false. The world is not to be trusted, any more than the stories we tell ourselves about it. In May,  of McCarthy’s award-winning novel , starring Tom Sturridge, is released. The movie is the tale of a man trying to reconstruct his life and the events leading up to the moment he was hit by a falling object, leaving him with severe amnesia. Uncoupled from his past, he tries to find a way back in, only to become a dupe in a larger game. Crossing the genres of heist movie and psychological thriller, Remainder is a meditation on the construction of identity. It is also great fun, of a piece with Fast’s own preoccupations.One thing leads to another and then another in Fast’s films. They are filled with misdirection, echoes and shadows ricocheting backwards and forwards in time. In his video 5,000 Feet is the Best, a laser-guided drone fires a rocket that strikes a pipe-bomb buried in a country road. The family in a car accidentally wrecked by the strike walk away from the explosion – they’re dead but haven’t noticed yet. The drone’s operator, somewhere in Nevada, doesn’t notice the collateral damage. Last shown in the UK  in 2013, the film delves into the psychology of the drone operator, mixing fact and fiction, real and staged documentary, taking us to hotel rooms and rip-off scams in Las Vegas, and drone’s-eye views over apple-pie churches in small-town America. At once expansive and claustrophobic, 5,000 Feet has the form of an old-fashioned portmanteau movie, leading us by a circuitous route into the mind of the drone operator, as though we ourselves were homing in on a target.Fast’s work is mordant, ripe with moments of black humour. “Did you sauté the brussels sprouts in lard? Exquisite!” says one man of his wife’s delicious dinner. Meanwhile, there’s an eyeball in the wine glass and the noodles are squirming like maggots, but only the couple’s son, a soldier returned home from the war in Afghanistan, can see them. It turns out he’s not their son, anyway, but a boy hired to re-enact a homecoming that never happened.I first saw Fast’s 40-minute Continuity at , and again in  in Wales. It’s a disturbing tale of a middle-class German couple who engage a succession of young men (rent boys? Actors? Indolent kids who’ll do anything for money?) to play the part of their soldier son, supposedly home from a tour in Afghanistan. It is an unhinged intrigue of incestuous sex games, cuckolding and, possibly, murder. As well as the action, Fast is good at capturing the repressed and pressure-cooked feelings beneath the surface, coming to the boil. For all its absurdities, Continuity has the feel of the authentic, which is the greatest artifice of all.And like all Fast’s works, it repays repeated viewings. In Spring, a new film projected on to an arrangement of five interconnected screens, he presents us with a prequel to Continuity, using the same actors and filling us in on the backstory of the young son. At least I think it does, but we never get to the bottom of it, because there isn’t one.Fast may have felt his work on Continuity wasn’t finished, but part of me wishes he hadn’t gone back to it. Speculating on what was really going on, pondering over the film’s dangling clues and inventing a solution has given me a great deal of pleasure since I first saw it six years ago. That’s how the work has continued to live for me; I don’t want too much explanation. In life, in the movies, in any story, there is always the unknowable, the unwritten or unscripted part, the stuff the camera or the words on the page cannot tell us. Fast works with these elisions, often to tremendous effect. A great deal hides in plain sight. Not only is he an unreliable narrator and director, his own appearances add a further level of artifice. Fast, the on-screen director and interlocutor, is always played by an actor. Is anyone in a Fast film who they seem to be – even when they appear to be a documentary subject, who they say they are? Unlike the “reconstructions” of , in which actors perform the roles of real people, Fast’s characters may or may not be who they appear to be – though I trust that the porn actors in his 2013 Everything That Rises Must Converge work in the industry.Here, an interview with a porn director is intercut with the daily working lives of his stars. As well as watching them screw for the camera, we see them shower, drive home to feed their dogs and retire to bed after another stressful day of humping and blow-jobs. But what of the giant prehistoric egg dug up in someone’s LA yard? No one seems to know what it’s doing here. Fast relishes the inexplicable.References and subtexts litter his works like severed limbs. I think we can ascertain that the blown-apart soldiers in Continuity (echoing Jeff Wall’s famous 1992 photograph, ) have only suffered prosthetic injuries; that the homicidal baker-cum-drug-dealer in Spring isn’t a real person. But Fast plays loose with our credulity and teases us with his references (as well as Wall, there is an echo of Bruce Nauman’s 1985 video  in ).Rich and rewarding, real and yet not real, the world of Omer Fast is crazed with stresses and faultlines, sheered by flaws, mirrorings, doublings, repetitions and couplings. Looped films are like life – we never come in at the beginning but make our way, getting our bearings and extemporising as we go, just like Sturridge’s character in Remainder. Fast’s show plunges us into the middle of things. So much for the passive spectator.</content>
<class_name>Video art,Art,Exhibitions,Drones (non-military),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-18T15:09:48+0000</date>
<title>Omer Fast: Present Continuous review – teasing takes on sex, death and trauma</title>
<content>onald Reagan loved movies. One night in June 1983, he sat down at Camp David to watch . The film stars Matthew Broderick as a tech-wiz teenager who unwittingly hacks into the main computer at Norad, the North American Aerospace Defense Command. Thinking he has merely stumbled upon a new computer game, the hacker comes dangerously close to starting a third world war.Five days later, the president was in a meeting with the secretaries of state, defense and treasury, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff and 16 senior members of Congress. They were there to discuss a new nuclear missile and the prospect of arms talks with the Russians. When Reagan began to give a detailed account of the plot of WarGames, eyes rolled.Then the president turned to John Vessey, the chairman of the joint chiefs, and asked: “Could something like this really happen?” One week later, General Vessey returned with a startling answer: “Mr President, the problem is much worse than you think.” Thus begins Dark Territory,  about the history of cyberwar. “When Reagan asked Vessey if someone could really hack into the military’s computers,“ Kaplan writes, “it was far from the first time the question had been asked.” It turned out that there was a good reason WarGames was so accurate: for their research the screenwriters had interviewed Willis Ware, who wrote a 1967 paper called Security and  on Computer Systems and for years headed the computer science department at the RAND Corporation, an Air Force-funded think tank.Reagan’s casual inquiry set off the first of many efforts by the intelligence establishment to figure out a way to bolster America’s defensive and offensive cyber capabilities. Each is described in extreme detail in Kaplan’s new book. , and he generally does a good job of making even the most technical subjects accessible to the layman. Sometimes the particulars of bureaucratic infighting can be almost numbing, but whenever the narrative threatens to bog down the author manages to revive the reader’s interest.Take the practice attack the US carried out on itself in 1997, which penetrated the entire defense establishment network in four days, including the National Military Command Center, the facility that transmits orders from the president during wartime. In Kaplan’s words: “Most of the officers manning those servers didn’t even know they’d been hacked.” It turns out cyber warfare has been playing an important role in American warfare for longer than many would suspect. When General Eric Shinseki, the general in charge of Nato forces in Bosnia, realized his troops were being attacked by demonstrators stimulated by Serbian television stations, he managed to install remote control boxes on five transmitters. After that, whenever a newscaster started to promote a demonstration, Shinkseki’s men simply turned the TV signal off. When Michael Hayden became director of the National Security Agency, he created the  (TAO). It created tools resembling “something out of the most exotic James Bond movie”. These, Kaplan writes, included LoudAuto, which activated a laptop’s microphone to monitor all conversations in its vicinity; HowlerMonkey, which extracted and transmitted files via radio signals even if a computer wasn’t hooked up to the internet; MonkeyCalendar, which tracked a cellphone’s location; NightStand, which could load a computer with malware from several miles away; and RageMaster, which tapped into a computer’s video signal so a TAO technician could see whatever a target was watching.All of this escalating technological prestidigitation eventually merged with post 9/11 fears of terrorism to produce the spymaster’s dream, and what should have been the citizen’s ultimate nightmare – what Kaplan refers to a little too benignly as “a growing if somewhat resigned acceptance of intrusions into daily life”. This sea change was codified in the summer of 2007 by the passage of the , only eight days after George Bush proposed it in his weekly address. NSA director Keith Alexander was able to convince his colleagues it now made sense to “scoop up and store  from . NSA lawyers even altered some otherwise plain definitions, so that doing this didn’t constitute ‘collecting’ data from American citizens, which would be illegal: under the new terminology, the NSA was just storing the data, the collecting wouldn’t happen until an analyst went to retrieve it from the files …”These of course were the practices that largely remained hidden from view until,  performed the singular service of revealing “a massive data-mining operation, more vast than any outsider had imagined”. It turned out, as Kaplan writes, that “the active surveillance of a single terrorist suspect could put a million people, possibly a million Americans, under [the NSA’s] watch. The revelation came as a shock, even to those who otherwise had few qualms about the occasional breach of personal privacy”.But instead of increasing our security, such methods have simply created a new form of mutually assured destruction. Congress has been told that China and “probably one or two other countries” are definitely inside the networks that control America’s power grids, waterworks and other critical assets. And though no American official has said so in public, America is also inside the networks “that controlled such assets in other countries”.“Would burrowing more deeply deter an attack, or would it only tempt both sides, all sides to attack the others’ networks preemptively?” These, Kaplan writes, were the questions that “some tried to answer but no one ever did” during the nuclear confrontations of the cold war. Now we face exactly the same questions, with no good answers for them.</content>
<class_name>Cyberwar,Espionage,Hacking,Internet,Ronald Reagan,Edward Snowden,Privacy,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-20T13:58:51+0000</date>
<title>Dark Territory review – how WarGames and Reagan shaped US cyberwar battle</title>
<content>t looks like a cross between a Meccano set and an Ikea lampshade, but the Trayser is, in fact, the latest e-bike from New Zealand firm ETT. It is certainly eye-catching, but all the design flourishes also conceal a remarkably forward-thinking bike. The plastic wraparound shell hides a 42V lithium ion battery which gives a range of 60 miles at up to 15.5mph. It takes 300 minutes to fully charge. To ride, it’s wonderfully comfortable and the electric pedal boost is instant and responsive. But where the Trayser really steals a march on the oppo is that it is the first bike for which you can 3D-print replacement parts. Simply visit , and click and order. If you are feeling imaginative you can even 3D-print your own accessories and build your own unique creation ().</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T06:00:07+0100</date>
<title>Trayser: bike review</title>
<content>Think of your Yahoo problem as a blessed escape. There are a couple of dozen free or  email services, but for most people, it boils down to Google’s Gmail or Microsoft’s Outlook.com. I recommend both, with Gmail as the primary address. Not everybody has the same requirements, but these meet most needs.Of course, some people want particular features, and may be willing to pay for them. These can include privacy, encryption, more storage space, the ability to use your own domain name, support for the IMAP and Microsoft EAS (Exchange ActiveSync) , add-on services such as instant messaging and calendars, and companion apps for smartphones and tablets. Some people don’t want Google scanning their emails for its targeted advertising. Such considerations provide opportunities for smaller services such as FastMail and ProtonMail – the latter offers extra security and end-to-end encryption.Think carefully about your priorities before you decide. Changing email addresses involves some work and can be a chore for your contacts. You don’t want to do it twice.For this reason, I recommend : it enables you to switch email providers while retaining the same Patrick@my.name.com email address. Unfortunately, both Gmail and Outlook.com have stopped offering that service for free, though you may find it elsewhere. (Try GMX Mail, Rackspace or Runbox, for example.) It’s more common with paid-for/business accounts, including Gmail and Zoho Mail.Wikipedia has several useful tables in its , though a few entries may not be right up-to-date.However, note that you can avoid some webmail problems – including terrible web interface designs – by using an email client running on your PC. Popular examples include Microsoft Outlook, eM Client, Thunderbird, and Windows Live Mail. Clients also let you operate several mailboxes from the same software.One of the most useful features of a new mail service is the ability to import all the emails and contacts from your old one. Both Gmail and Outlook.com seem to do this pretty well, though it can take a few days or even weeks to collect everything.In Gmail, click the cogwheel and select Settings, go to the tab that says “Accounts and import” and click on “Import mail and contacts”. In Outlook.com, click the cogwheel and select “Connected accounts” (or if not there, “Options”). Next, under “Add a connected account”, select “Other email accounts”. Outlook.com lets you import your old email straight into your new inbox or into a new folder, with subfolders like your old account. Gmail can’t do folders.Of course, it does depend on your new mailbox having enough space. Google provides 15GB, shared with Gdrive, which should be enough. (Having used Gmail since it opened, I’ve had to .) Outlook.com provides , but the actual space expands slowly from 5GB, so a flurry of large emails can lead to “mailbox full” messages. (Having used Outlook.com since it opened, I’ve never had to delete any emails.)Both Gmail and Outlook.com allow mail forwarding, which means you can have all incoming emails automatically forwarded to another email address. I have Gmail forwarding to my Outlook.com account, so if I’m ever , I won’t lose access to my old emails.After using both systems for more than a decade, I find Gmail faster, more powerful, and easier to use, so that’s what I recommend. In general, they are not too far apart on features, but Gmail is more configurable. Either way, the latest version of Outlook.com has “infinite pages” (at least, I can’t figure out how to turn them off), and the search/move operation is a nightmare.For someone contemplating paying BT – or anyone else – £5 a month, I’d suggest Microsoft Outlook 365. This gets you a powerful email service with a terabyte of storage, the full Microsoft Office programs running locally on your PC or Mac, smartphone and tablet apps for Android and Apple iOS, and human help.  costs £59.99 per year for one user, while  costs £79.99 per year for up to five users.On Twitter, Steve Hewitt – who has the same issue with BT – pointed out an extra problem: he . This could include Facebook.Usually, websites only use your email address to send a confirmation letter when you sign up. They don’t check it every time you log on. These websites should therefore continue to work even if the email address doesn’t.However, you will run into problems if you need a password recovery or something similar, because the website will send the access code to your defunct email address. You must therefore check any email addresses stored on these websites and update them to your new Gmail address.</content>
<class_name>Email,Computing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T09:18:37+0000</date>
<title>What’s the best free email service for someone moving from BT?</title>
<content>on’t put your daughter on the stage, Mrs Worthington. But in 2016, what if the stage is YouTube, and your daughter (or son) is demanding to be put on it, playing ?That’s the dilemma facing a growing number of parents, whose children aren’t just watching YouTube Minecraft channels like ,  and  – they want to follow in their blocky footsteps.“I want to make Minecraft videos and I want you to put them on ,” was how my eight-year-old son put it recently. “I’ve been practising talking while I play, and I’m nearly as good as Stampy now.”That’s some confidence. YouTuber Joseph “Stampy” Garrett has nearly 7.2 million subscribers to his channel, with videos that have been watched more than 4.8bn times.His fellow Brit Dan “The Diamond Minecart” Middleton is even more popular, with just under 10 million subscribers and 6.3bn video views.For tweens and teens around the world, these are the new pop stars. But whereas the historical cliche about pop fans has them miming with a hairbrush to their favourite stars’ songs, today’s children understand that they can do exactly what their Minecraft idols are doing, on the same stage – YouTube.“I would say that the majority of my audience has tried making video, even if it’s just using their parents’ phone and filming the TV screen as they speak,” said Garrett, .“Even if they’re not recording, they’re speaking as if they’re doing a video. At a recent event, I asked ‘who in the audience is a YouTuber?’ and the majority put their hand up: they all want to do it.”For parents, this is sparking several questions. First, could their children really make Minecraft videos for YouTube, and if so, how? To which the short answers are “Yes” and “More easily than you think”.A third question: should their children be allowed to make Minecraft videos for YouTube? That’s a bit more complicated, as I found out.In my case, the “how?” question had already been answered before my children – the eight year-old’s younger brother wasn’t going to be left out – developed their block-based broadcasting ambitions.In 2014, I’d bought a £120 device called the Elgato Game Capture HD with the intention of producing some video reviews of apps. It sits in between your games console and computer, feeding video from the former into editing software on the latter. A USB Skype headset plugged in to the computer provided the means for spoken commentary while playing.My device is just one option for console Minecrafters: there are cheaper gadgets like the Dodocool GameCap (£24) and EzGamer (£28); mid-tier devices like the AverMedia GL310 LGP Lite (£60) and Roxio Game Capture HD Pro (£80); and more expansive models like the Hauppage HD Rocket (£100) and Elgato’s newer Game Capture HD60 (£130).If your children play Minecraft on a PC or Mac, you don’t need the extra hardware (apart from a headset) – Google “screen capture” software and pick from options including Fraps, ScreenPresso, Ezvid, Bandicam and many more, with a range of prices.The resulting videos can be uploaded to YouTube as they are, or edited using any video-editing software: iMovie on Macs, for example. Meanwhile, YouTube has clear instructions online for  and .With my sons demanding to try their hands at Minecraft YouTube videos, I had the kit and knowledge to do it. Deciding whether or not it was a good idea took a bit longer though.YouTube has an increasingly diverse and fascinating community of creators making videos for children to watch, but I worried about allowing my kids to become creators themselves: from toxic comment threads to more general concerns about their privacy and safety offline as well as online.With their teenage years ahead of them, my children will have ample opportunity to be made to feel awful by social media in the future. Would I be a bad parent for potentially exposing them to that even earlier?At the same time, their creative urges made me feel quite proud. The best Minecraft videos aren’t just someone playing and gabbling about it. They’re a combination of creative play, storytelling, problem-solving and self-expression – and often collaboration. Good things!I have no ambitions for my children to be the next Stampy or DanTDM, but like a lot of parents, I’d love them to find the ways they like to express themselves creatively – whether that’s writing stories, drawing and painting, making up songs and playing instruments, or other activities.Making at least one Minecraft video and publishing it on YouTube seemed like a fun project, but one requiring some strict ground rules.In our case, these included sitting both my sons down and explaining why I didn’t want them to use their real names in their videos – or to talk about their families, where they live or any other personal information.Both had to make up their own characters, settling on “Percy Panther” and “Chickeny Chap”, and just as importantly remember those names while recording.We agreed time limits on our recording sessions – half an hour per child split between three 10-minute episodes – and for my part, I learned how to disable comments on the uploaded videos.So how was it for them, and for me? Our recording session was genuinely fun, with no worrying moments bar one son’s enthusiastic “HELLO! IT’S [FIRSTNAME] DREDGE FROM [TOWN NAME]” introduction when he forgot he was a virtual panther, requiring a swift restart.Both children loved the creative challenge of making a good video: for example, switching to a camera view of their character at the start and end of each video to deliver their intros and sign-offs; and figuring out what the narrative arcs would be for the episodes beyond “wandering around and shouting”.It surprised me how much they’d soaked up from watching their favourite online stars, too.Sometimes that wasn’t such a good thing: both children nicked Stampy’s “BYYYYEEEEEEE!” signoff wholesale until I pointed out that their idol might be a bit miffed if he heard it.But their ability to explain and entertain while building, fighting and tackling the Ender Dragon was hugely impressive. Today’s children are getting a broadcasting crash course whether in front of a camera or behind it with joypad.One unforseen parental headache was the view-count aftermath of uploading each child’s first video to my YouTube channel. It really didn’t matter to me how many views they got, and I was secretly relieved that the totals were tiny: 31 and 14 respectively in the first few days after posting.The problem, as any parent with more than one child will have spotted from that last paragraph, is that the totals weren’t the same: one son is twice as “popular” as the other, and he’s not shy of rubbing it in.Foolishly, I hadn’t spotted that problem coming. On a more positive note, both are feeling proud as punch that they are “on YouTube like Stampy”, so the intense oneupmanship at home is hopefully being balanced by a boost to their playground credibility with their friends.Having done it once, would I put my children on YouTube again? Yes, but not to make them famous. The joy of this process was in the making, not in the distribution.I spent a couple of hours with my sons making something creative that they were excited about, with lots of laughter (and only a few stern rebukes about why the Chickeny Chap brand probably shouldn’t be so reliant on fart and bottom jokes).I’m no Mrs Worthington, then. But in this case, responding positively to my children’s demands felt like a fun – and safe, with the ground rules – thing to do together. </content>
<class_name>YouTube,Minecraft,Children's tech,Online TV,Games,Game culture,Digital media,Internet,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T09:00:13+0000</date>
<title>Your kids want to make Minecraft YouTube videos – but should you let them?</title>
<content>A bug that causes links and web addresses not to work and iPhones to crash continues to affect thousands of  smartphone and tablet users.The problem was , which has been rated by over 14,000 people and is currently ranked at 114 in the most downloaded free apps on the iPhone. The app overloaded one of Apple’s core systems for linking web addresses and apps within iOS on the iPhone and iPad, called Universal Links.A recent version of the app came with a large 2.3MB file filled with thousands of individual URLs that should open directly within the Booking.com app. Most apps’ Universal Links files are 1,000 times smaller, around a couple of kilobytes in size, which meant that the large 2.3MB file broke iOS’s linking system.Booking.com has since fixed its app, but anyone who installed and ran the app before it was fixed ended up with a broken Universal Link system, which means most links will not work when tapped within most Apple and third-party apps, including Mail, Messages, Safari, Twitter and others.Many users  when links  made within Safari stopped working, leading some to resort to using Bing, which had a similar effect.Enraged users who have been caught out by the bug blame Apple and . Some have experienced terrible battery life since the bug, others have found their iPhones practically unusable. Apple acknowledged the problem on Tuesday, but a fix has not yet been released.One Apple Support forum user :“After seven betas of iOS 9.3, this shouldn’t happen.”Others vented on Twitter.Some users found that some third-party browsers would continue to work, but not everyone was so lucky, while others found that disabling JavaScript within Safari helped get at least some links working again.Some found success fixing the issue with a  involving a computer designed to try and clear the corruption of the Universal Links system, while some found that rebooting their iPhones would temporarily remedy the problem.Either way, it appears that only Apple will be able to fix the problem for thousands of irate  users.An Apple spokesperson said: “We are aware of this issue, and we will release a fix in a software update soon.”</content>
<class_name>iPhone,iOS,Apple,iPad,Smartphones,Tablet computers,Software,Mobile phones,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T10:12:09+0100</date>
<title>Broken iPhone links frustrate thousands as Apple scrambles to fix problem</title>
<content>ar from the soy and cattle that dominate its vast fertile pampas,  harbours another valuable commodity that is rocketing in price and demand and luring newly welcomed foreign investors.Lithium, the so-called “white petroleum”, drives much of the modern world. It forms a small but essentially irreplaceable component of rechargeable batteries, used in consumer devices like mobile phones and electric cars. It also has pharmaceutical and other applications. Over half of the earth’s identified resources of the mineral are found in South America’s “lithium triangle”, an otherworldly landscape of high-altitude lakes and bright white salt flats that straddles Chile, Argentina and .Until recently, that was not great news for investors. Argentina and Bolivia lacked predictability and a friendly business environment, while  kept strict control over lithium output. But that may be all about to change.In Chile, a sale of state lithium deposits and a shake-up in the way the country manages its resources has awakened interest from everyone from early-stage mining companies to electric carmakers like . In Argentina, already the world’s No 3 lithium producer after Chile and Australia, investors are hopeful that the new Mauricio Macri government that took over in December will herald a brighter future. Business-friendly Macri has begun making sweeping changes in a bid to return the country to economic orthodoxy, removing onerous capital controls and sending a message that the country is open for business again after more than a decade of protectionism. “For 10 or 12 years, (Argentina) was a do-not-invest zone. The tone of doing business has just swung 180 degrees,” said Tom Hodgson, the chief executive of Western Lithium, which is developing a project in the country due to begin production next year. Argentina now has a “major opportunity” to build a lithium export business, Hodgson told Reuters earlier this month at a mining conference in Toronto. Western Lithium is working with Korean steelmaker POSCO , whose chairman was in Argentina last month to meet with Macri and begin the construction of a new lithium plant, due to begin commercial production within a year. The exploratory mining company Orocobre is also developing a project. But the company perhaps best set to benefit from an Argentine lithium revolution is US agricultural and chemical conglomerate FMC Corp. FMC is already producing lithium from the Salar de Hombre Muerto salt flat in northern Argentina. Lithium provides a small but growing part of FMC’s revenues, with sales of around $250 million forecast for this year. “Now the (Argentine) administration is starting to change policy, it’s giving us even more confidence that it will be a predictable and cost-effective operation,” FMC Lithium Vice-President Tom Schneberger said. “We expect significant year-over-year improvement for lithium in 2016 and we see that going clear to 2020.” Demand for lithium is set to outstrip supply by 2023, according to specialist consultants Stormcrow Capital, with the lion’s share coming from rechargeable batteries. Bolivia has more identified lithium resources than any other country, but commercially it’s likely to be “shunted to the side for an extended period”, says Jon Hykawy, Stormcrow’s president. Bolivia has natural challenges – too much rain, other chemicals in the mix – as well as a prickly investment environment. Chile, though, is popular with investors for its free market credentials, while the dry desert climate is “perfect” for lithium production, said Brian Jaskula, a US Geological Survey mineral commodity specialist. The key lithium site in Chile is the vast Salar de Atacama salt flat, where local firm SQM and foreign-owned Rockwood have operations. SQM was privatised in the 1980s during General Augusto Pinochet’s regime and a former son-in-law of the late dictator owns a controlling stake. But it is on uneasy terms with the current leftist government. In the last two years, it has run foul of authorities over market manipulation and dubious tax invoices, and is in arbitration with economic development agency Corfo over royalties. Now US specialty chemicals firm Albemarle Corp is muscling in on SQM’s turf. Having spent $6 billion (£4.26) last year to buy Rockwood, it then signed a deal with Corfo in its drive to triple lithium output in Chile.Chile’s government said it sees public-private partnerships as the way forward and is planning to put more deposits up for tender. It denies favouring any particular company. “Chile is willing to work with anybody who wants to explore and produce ore, provided they comply with Chile’s requirements and standards,” Mining Minister Aurora Williams told Reuters. However, Corfo head Eduardo Bitran insisted private lithium investment must be “sustainable” and in the interests of Chileans. Albemarle and SQM declined to be interviewed for this story. But SQM said in an investor conference call in early March that it wanted to increase lithium output in Chile, as well as look at unspecified “opportunities around the world“. Industry insiders warn that, no matter how friendly the government, the process of ramping up output is a complex one. That leaves battery makers and other end users of lithium largely at the mercy of the big providers. In addition to Tesla, traditional car companies including Nissan and BMW operate in the burgeoning electric vehicle industry. Germany’s Daimler recently announced that it would build a new lithium-ion battery factory, while technology firms like Samsung and Foxconn are also key users. As prices rise, they are keen to lock in deals. Lithium carbonate is selling for $6,400 per tonne, up from $5,180 in 2011. Prices in the opaque Chinese market are reportedly higher. Tesla and other car manufacturers have been to Chile to see if they could ensure future lithium supplies, according to Ignacio Moreno, Chile’s deputy mining minister. Tesla declined to comment on talks, but said it has signed three deals with exploratory companies outside Chile that would “not provide all” its lithium. Battery makers “are looking for any source across the world that they can establish joint ventures with, no matter how risky they are,” said Jaskula.  This article was amended on 25 March 2016. An earlier version referred to a price of lithium carbonate of “$6,400 per kilo” where “$6,400 per tonne” was meant.</content>
<class_name>Smartphones,Mobile phones,Telecoms,Energy,Tesla,Argentina,Bolivia,Americas,Chile,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-23T17:10:02+0000</date>
<title>How South America's lithium triangle is gearing up to feed our battery addiction</title>
<content>rica Baker likes poker. So did many of the engineers she spent 10 years working with at , in the California headquarters of one of the world’s most valuable technology companies. When she was eventually invited to a poker night with other engineers, the group of white, male colleagues fell silent as she walked into the room. “That did not feel good,” she says. “I get that it’s comfortable to be around people like you, but it’s also pretty important to be around people who are not like you – it helps one grow as a human being. That was the point where I started to get fed up with Google.”Around the same time, in late November 2014, Baker joined a local  protest after the shooting of a black teenager by a white police officer. When she posted a photo to , , the co-founder of , a new chat tool for use at work, sent her a message: “Stay safe.” She says, “I just thought, ‘Holy crap – that’s a tech CEO!’ ” She left Google to join Slack as an engineer in May 2015. has developed plenty of folklore around tech CEOs; like Page, they tend to start out in a garage, drop out of college, and within a few years metamorphose from boychild prodigy to omnipotent genius.Butterfield’s story is a little different. He was born on a hippy commune in Canada and christened Dharma Butterfield. He studied philosophy at Cambridge University and, after various design and product development roles, accidentally came up with the photo-sharing site  while trying to build a game. (Slack came up in the same way, a side project of a game called Glitch.) is part of a wave of technologies trying to change the way we communicate, enabling continuous, fluid, more natural conversations to replace restrictive and time-consuming emails. Already, more than 2.3 million people use it every day, sending 1.5bn messages every month. Despite being just two years old, Slack is already valued at $2.8bn, a figure that makes it .When I meet Butterfield, wearily hunched over a meeting room desk, he swears he’ll never attempt to design another game. The California sun is pouring into Slack’s spacious, quiet office, the odd emoji balloon hovering above the desks.Perhaps unusually for a CEO, Butterfield doesn’t think a business should be all about making money: “People don’t work for money. It’s a way of establishing the health of the machine, of diagnosing how the machine is performing, but it’s not necessarily the goal. They get a lot of purpose and identity from work, yet most people are unhappy there. They feel work isn’t taking advantage of everything they have to offer, that they are more resourceful, intelligent, creative or capable. The formality of how people speak to each other is a constraint, so their job doesn’t let them be their whole self.”Slack is sometimes described as an email killer, which might be as much an ardent prayer as anything else.  estimated that nearly 2.6 billion people used email worldwide as of 2015, each sending and receiving an average of 122 emails a day at work alone. Email is frequently cited as a major drain on productivity; Slack claims its users report receiving 48.6% less internal email after they start using the tool., a sociologist and Slack’s user researcher, argues that email represents an older generation of workers and an outmoded way of communicating: “Email is hierarchical and compartmentalized, and great for political maneuvering.” Blind copying, or the bcc, is an example of that: your boss could be silently copied into an email chain. Email allows the sender to choose who to send information to, and who to exclude. It is also loaded with letter-writing conventions, expectations that we must reply and include a formal greeting. We should cut that formality and replace it with fast exchanges of ideas, Reich says. “How often is there deep collaboration and sharing on email? That weird overlapping feeling of ideas and iteration and design thinking? That’s still new to a lot of people. It’s radical collaboration, a different way of working and thinking.”Reich has been using online chat since 1992, when she inhabited some fairly niche chat rooms on the east coast dedicated to raves. She argues that the workforce today includes a generation who are used to less hierarchical communication and very good at chat. “They are simply not entrenched in email the same way we are,” she says. “Companies realize they need to have the tools people are used to using.”, Google Chat,  and many other messaging applications have changed the way we communicate; WhatsApp alone has 1 billion monthly users.  found that 49% of teens used texting as their primary way of talking to their closest friend, compared with 20% on social media and only 13% by phone. Texting and chat messaging may once have been the domain of the young, but those teenagers are growing up – and companies want to look progressive to attract young talent. Slack aims to create a new norm for how we communicate at work: a ubiquitous, informal chat that feels like an extension of the reflexive personalities we construct on our social media accounts; all that is seeping into work now, too.Slack is nothing like conventional work software; it is bright, fast and stuffed with emojis. Most users receive an invite from someone else at work to join a “team”, and once they have Slack’s app on their desktop or mobile, they’ll see channels dedicated to different topics, private channels for invited groups, and direct messages. There is typically one main channel that acts like a common room, and offshoots for groups or projects. Slack’s own corporate team has 1,064 channels for its 356 staff, including the novelty channels #happyplace for pictures of cute animals, #theoldgodsandthenew for Game Of Thrones and TV chat, and #socks for pictures of the day’s footwear. Users can also send files and emojis, and add any of the 280 tools that can be plugged into Slack, including proofreading, to-do lists, calendars and Skype; you can even order an Uber through a chat message.Ardent users praise Slack’s warmth and humor, credited largely to editorial director, a former Guardian journalist who has used her master’s degree in dramaturgy to “specialize in giving things a voice”. From its marketing and advertising to error messages, Slack has a gentle, accessible humor that isn’t topical or ingratiating, and doesn’t use in-jokes. One error message reads: “We’ve seen this problem clear up with a restart of your browser, a solution which we suggest to you now only with great regret and self-loathing.”The technology is gaining popularity largely because curious, tech-inclined people start using it, and convince their bosses to pay for an upgrade the whole firm can use. This bottom-up strategy looks risky on paper, but is working beyond anyone’s expectations. Clients now include the Wall Street Journal, Samsung, Harvard and Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.Despite being founded by four white men, Slack has defied Silicon Valley’s self-reinforcing recruitment patterns to create probably the most diverse company in tech’s top tier. It feels like a company run by grownups; there is no ping pong at its San Francisco HQ, and its brand of conscientious, thoughtful culture has attracted staff such as Erica Baker.Baker is very active in promoting diversity; she requested that Slack remove the requirement of 10 years’ experience from job specs because it has been proven to deter women from applying, and pushed for the inclusion of emojis with different skin tones. Baker has been working in technical roles for 15 years, and now advises the Bay Area’s  project on helping kids from low-income families work towards jobs in technology, and is a mentor for .Butterfield is well known in the tech industry for being a charismatic CEO, but less well known for being propelled by a team of formidable women. , head of Slack’s people and policy, was the first person in Silicon Valley to be employed to work on the complex legal and policy issues around privacy back in 1996 at . She met Butterfield in 2005, when Yahoo bought . He now says he regrets selling, his eyes rolling when he talks about Yahoo’s corporate culture, in his view rife with executives consumed by power battles. He stayed running Flickr until July 2008 and then spent eight months on a break; his LinkedIn profile of the time says “Unemployed person – the great outdoors”. Many Slack staff have similar stories of enduring unhappy or unfulfilling work environments, but Toth says they have shaped how they wanted the company to grow: “We want to build the kind of company we want to work at. To show that you can break a mould and be successful.”When she joined, Toth encouraged the executive team to make a plan about company values, which might seem like the kind of nauseating marketing exercise no one takes any notice of, but which Slack has done with great sincerity. “When you walk into a company and see words such as ‘excellence’ and ‘integrity’ on the wall, it doesn’t feel authentic,” Toth says. “We didn’t want it to feel like marketing.” Slack was recruiting rapidly and needed to define a sensibility that, until then, had been “osmotically transmitted” from the personality of the founders; they came up with craftsmanship, courtesy, playfulness, thriving, solidarity and empathy. Those ideals inform how management makes decisions every day, from prioritizing broken code (craftsmanship) to making sure everyone leaves work on time (thriving).As Slack’s senior staff recruited, they wanted to challenge any unconscious bias, Toth explains. “Some people think you make better products if you have a more diverse workforce, some think you get better business results with a more diverse workforce, and some think it is more a matter of social justice, that it is our obligation. Rather than reinforce the notion that an engineer looks like , we can introduce four powerful women who happen to be black. It changes the idea of what an engineer looks like.”The company’s  showed that 43.1% of the staff are female, 43% of senior management are female, 13% of staff identify as LGBT and 7.8% of staff in engineering roles identify as black. It’s not designed to be self-congratulatory, they say, because these numbers still don’t reflect the real world, but it is a significant improvement on the biggest tech companies: Google, Facebook and Twitter all report that 1% of engineers are black.Slack may be small – less than 1% of the number of employees of Google – but its slightly older, more experienced management team is instinctively challenging recruitment processes they know haven’t worked. , Slack’s group product manager for growth, recently worked alongside an external recruiter who asked which three colleges she should recruit from. “I had to explain that we don’t do that, because all you are doing is pulling people out of a funnel of privilege. We want people who are kind and empathetic and smart.” Grace is one of many senior Slackers with an arts degree, and started her own games company. She felt ground down by the implicitly masculine culture, she says; one hiring manager said he hadn’t given a job to a woman because he wanted “an alpha dog”. Along with many others on the staff (Slack typically hires people in their early 30s rather than their 20s), Grace has been through the phase of working 18-hour days and sleeping under the desk, and come out the other side. Yet the pervasive culture of working extreme hours persists. “Just because your ass is on a seat doesn’t mean you’re working. If you’re brain dead after 6pm, go home. You can work like that for only so long.”Part of that process of recruiting has been gently to pick at the valley’s culture of machismo. There are no “rock star” developers or “ninjas” at Slack. They do not “crush it”, and they do not call everyone “guys”, because not everyone is a guy – they prefer the term “sibs”, as in siblings. Ali Rayl, Slack’s director of customer experience, points out that Slack’s “work hard and go home” culture is also better for women. “It allows them to say, ‘I can do this job. I can emulate the founders in the way I work and not get punished for it. And I can take care of my family.’ When people come here, we expect them to have a life. We hired someone from Facebook and he couldn’t believe that the place emptied out at 6pm.”Slack is high on the giddy enthusiasm of Silicon Valley investors and early adopting techies. But everyone is painfully aware that this is a very young company in a very aggressive industry, and things could all change. Many of the staff are unusually candid in describing this intense pressure; Rayl says it’s a “constant low-grade terror that I might screw something up”; Butterfield tells staff it will never get better than this. Slack is the flavor of 2016, but could it become more than that?, a writer and entrepreneur who has followed Slack since it began, says one of its biggest challenges will be navigating the “ordinary dysfunction” of large companies. Having used Slack to co-ordinate projects with 20 different companies, Dash observes that companies in crisis typically use more private messages and less open discussion. Rather than shape the way we communicate, technology reflects our existing insecurities and behavior. The more confident workers feel, the more happy they are to engage in discussion and collaboration out in the open.Entrepreneur and author  questions whether software could ever solve what is fundamentally a human problem. “We have an education system that encourages people to think of themselves as soloists – their success actually requires someone else’s failure.” These soloists create friction and competitiveness, she says, which often takes precedence over collaboration.Slack needs buy-in from corporate America if it is to succeed, and while Silicon Valley has always been hugely influential in working culture, from open-plan offices and standing desks to free perks and bonding sessions, is the business world really ready to upgrade its social skills? Isn’t radical collaboration one step too far?Erica Baker doesn’t think so. I ask her what she might tell her nieces about her work in 50 years’ time. “I’d say your auntie helped change an industry. And that she doesn’t have to work any more,” she says, with the confidence of a woman who senses a public offering over the horizon. “Well, we’re the fastest-growing enterprise company in the world, so there’s a good chance. That’s just honest.”👌🏽</content>
<class_name>Silicon Valley,Email,Computing,Internet,Emoji,Flickr,Yahoo,Chat and messaging apps,Social media,Google,Digital media,Race issues,Women,Work & careers,US work & careers,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T07:00:11+0000</date>
<title>Beyond email: could startup Slack change the way you work?</title>
<content>owever ugly your Nissan, you should always think, “It could be worse. I could be in .” In the X-Trail (which everyone at once called the En-Trail, due to the random splashes of reflective red across the back, which made it look as if its guts were on the outside) the excesses of the brand are toned down. No twiddly bits, just solid respectability, seven seats, six speakers, five-inch screen behind the wheel, seven-inch screen for the maddeningly slow satnav, leather everywhere, all the signs of being a grownup and as much safety as you can pad into a car without taking its wheels off.The Tekna is the range-topper, with a six-speed manual engine and 1.6 litres of petrolly promise that it didn’t live up to. I got used to the shape, and when it came to say goodbye, you could say I almost liked it, and not just because it is hard not to like orange things once you get to know them. But it’s heavy for its engine, and the acceleration is a bit pathetic. I caught the children making side eyes of embarrassment as I tried to race Ocado vans and lawnmowers off traffic lights. “There’s no point pretending you’re not with the car,” I explained, “when you’re  the car.” “It’s you we’re pretending not to be with,” they whispered. “It’s your aggressive driving style and age-inappropriate hand gestures.” So I sang Abba over the top and admired the power-opening panoramic roof.If you try to accelerate really hard, the steering goes awry, which is unsettling. It’s choppy in the city; so many gear changes, it’s like playing hippy music on your gearstick. Yet, otherwise, it feels quite urban, with its responsive steering and multi-monitors ensuring you scarcely, if ever, collide with anything.It’s less charming on a long journey. There are useful motorway features for people who hate driving – speed-limited cruise control – but it’s not what you’d call poky. On roads where you need more agility, you don’t get it: it doesn’t recover well from road unevenness, you’d never want to accelerate into a corner, there is no sweet spot where it actively seems to enjoy speeding up and I was frankly incredulous at the top speed (as advertised). It’s also surprisingly thirsty for a car with such an ambivalent attitude to performance.On the plus side, it’s very quiet, comfortable, feels plush and there’s a lot of space; it is, in short, a passengers’ car, perfect for the participant with no responsibilities. Don’t knock it; there are a lot of passengers out there. £29,895  200mph  0-62mph in 9.7 seconds  44mpg  149g/km  7/10  5/10</content>
<class_name>Motoring,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>On the road: Nissan X-Trail car review – ‘I tried to race Ocado vans and lawnmowers’</title>
<content>’m standing in front of a decorative garden talking to a guy from Germany about  specifications. This is not really what I was hoping for from the future of online social communication.The place I’m in is AltSpace, a virtual reality social world. It was launched in 2013 by , a small startup based in Redwood City, California. Although it’s early days for virtual reality as a consumer phenomenon, there’s been a lot of interest in the idea of virtual chatrooms – AltSpace VR has already attracted more than $15m (£10.6m) in venture capital funding, and Mark Zuckerberg has talked about multi-user VR as the future of social media. There are alternatives to AltSpace, such as vTime and VRChat but this one is getting a lot of interest due to its multi-platform compatibility and array of features. That’s why I decided to don a HTC Vive and spend an hour in the virtual world of chat. It’s been ... odd.When you boot up AltSpace you’re dropped into the welcome area. It’s a sort of futuristic living room complete with huge windows looking out over a peaceful, neatly trimmed garden. I keep expecting Kevin McCloud to pop by and tell me how much it cost to build. On one wall there’s a vast screen that gives hints on how to customise and name your avatar. On another, there’s a menu display that shows different rooms and areas to explore. There’s a diary of social get-togethers so you can meet up for karaoke or to play, say, Dungeons and Dragons. There are also special events such as standup comedy evenings and talks. In a couple of days time, for example, Emmy-nominated writer and comedian Heather Anne Campbell will be here doing virtual improv with Miles Stroth.Organisers of real-life events can also arrange to stream live footage into AltSpace – there’s even a plush cinema viewing room where you can stand and watch. Facebook streamed the recent Oculus Connect 2 conference into the world.I’m here at 8.30am on a Thursday so it’s not exactly Piccadilly Circus. There are a few avatars roaming around the welcome room; some look like droids, some like blank-eyed cartoon men. I’ve gone with a sort of Asimov-style android in a white jumpsuit and pink sunglasses. This is basically what I wear in real-life anyway so I feel pretty comfortable.When you hit an area, you can immediately hear everyone else chatting. The Vive and Rift headsets both have built-in mics so chatting is easy – and when you’re talking the name above your avatar lights up so people can tell it’s you. It’s also possible to bring up a little on-screen menu of emojis so you can make a smiley face or high-five symbol appear above your head. There is no escaping the emoji, even in virtual space.At first, I start chatting with a post-production special effects manager based in Chicago. We do what people have always done in chatrooms: compare locations. We don’t have to ask about age or sex because those come through, to some extent, in our voices. That’s the first really intriguing thing about VR chat – if you talk, it’s harder to disguise your gender; you’re giving away much more real-world information about yourself. An AltSpace veteran told me that the VR community is overwhelmingly male and so when a female voice is heard it attracts a lot of interest. Here’s where things get potentially uncomfortable. You can move in the world with a joypad or by pointing your head at an area of the map and instantly transporting there. If you’re using an  Vive you can move around by actually walking but it’s quicker to just direct your cursor and teleport. When people do that to you they pop up right into your vicinity, and it’s super intimidating. Some get really close and you can find yourself in the middle of a huddle. Although it’s not really your body, you feel your personal space being pressed and pushed at. The polite barriers we put up in ‘meatspace’ (as cyberpunk authors used to call the real world), don’t yet exist in the virtual space. I can’t imagine how different that experience will be for a woman, I just know that I found myself stepping away from other avatars on several occasions.At the same time, there’s no aural intimacy. If you’re in the same room with other people, you can hear everyone chatting at once and there’s little positional detail (even though the Rift and Vive support that function), so everyone is more-or-less the same volume. If there’s more than two people it’s a wall of chat. It’s likely that this will improve but it means, although you can be physically intimate in terms of body space, you can’t whisper. Maybe that’s a good thing, I don’t know. The other weird thing is, you think you’re in the same space but you’re not: AltSpace users get different features depending on the tech they’re using. For example, in the welcome space, I could see a mirror on the wall that let me see my own avatar as well as everyone else in view but it didn’t show up for people who weren’t using Vive. “You get this interesting social hierarchy forming,” says Dan Page of Opposable VR, who was kind enough to lend me the tech. “You have users who are on Vive, on Rift, on Gear, and you can also use AltSpace on a 2D screen. But when I use Vive, other people can see the controllers represented on screen so they crowd round and ask me about the technology. Also anyone using the Leap Motion actually have visible hands on-screen. It’s like a technological class system.”Page dons a Gear VR headset and we wander the space together. There’s a room where you can play frisbee golf and a decorative garden maze to explore. Things are pretty empty – we pass an Australian man and woman, who seem to be trying to help each other navigate but there aren’t many other people around. Page says the most people he’s seen in a room is 25, and that’s pretty common. “If you go on at around six in the evening, it tends to be at least 15 people,” he said. “I’ve bumped into people I know on Twitter. Quite often you meet the AltSpace community staff, they’re around quite a lot explaining the features of the space.”For the most part though, I meet other men messing about with their new VR toys. The guy from Germany is fascinated that I’m using the Vive. When I tell him I’m a journalist he wants to know if the Vive is the best headset I’ve tried. Then the guy from Chicago teleports over and suddenly they’re discussing PC specifications and whether Valve is planning a VR-compatible version of its  Machine platform. I realise that I am in a VR chat space having the sort of conversation that I could have at any real-world tech event with the same kind of people who would be there. It’s the sort of conversation I would desperately wish myself out of in meatspace, but in VR I can just bring up another menu, select a different room and, whoosh, I’m gone.That is definitely a good thing. There are clearly a whole bundle of social rules and conventions that will need to be formed and regulated in these spaces – especially as a wider array of people come onboard. Imagine a Twitter storm in this space; imagine a troll; imagine being dog-piled when you can see and hear everyone yelling at you. It is possible to mute another user by pointing at the name icon above their avatar and clicking on the ‘ignore’ button, but if there’s more than one harasser it’ll take time. I suppose there’s a chance people will behave with more civility in virtual space where telepresence inevitably creates a different social atmosphere. I’m not sure I’d bet on that, though.On the flipside, there is amazing potential here to bring likeminded people together in a way that replicates a lot of the social cues and parameters of the real world. Everything from social hangouts to business meetings are easily facilitated. I can imagine this will be fun, exciting and, well, sociable. Relationships will be formed, social barriers will be dropped, ideas will be generated. Of course, we’ve had online virtual worlds like Second Life for years, and they’ll provide  clues on how this will all pan out – but in VR the dynamics feel very different – more intimate. As a games writer, I’ve seen how online multiplayer games have become interesting spaces that allow friends to chat about lots of stuff they may not be able to in real life – perhaps places such as AltSpace will be the same. Perhaps telepresence therapy will become a thing. But it’s all so strange at the moment because our brains are still adapting to this brave new world. It is crazy to be both embodied and not embodied in a space. To have the visual cues of physical intimacy without any physical intimacy at all. There were times when I cocked my ear towards another speaker in the room to hear them better. Of course it made no difference but some part of me thought it would. All those little indicators of mood and intention that accompany our movements and facial expressions in the real world are lost here. We have our voices and weird, unresponsive metal bodies. We are souls in an alien world. I did not want to talk about PC specifications. I wanted to talk about what the hell all this is going to mean when everyone else arrives. </content>
<class_name>Virtual reality,PC,HTC,Steam,Virtual worlds,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T12:24:10+0000</date>
<title>Alone together: my weird morning in a virtual reality chatroom</title>
<content>A Portuguese branch of the Anonymous hacking collective says it has shut down around 20 Angolan government websites in retaliation to the  for plotting a “rebellion”.The youths, including well-known rapper , were sentenced on Monday to between two and eight-and-a-half years, in a ruling that Amnesty International said was “an affront to justice”.In a statement on its Facebook page the Anonymous Portugal group  it said it had attacked. None of the websites were accessible on Wednesday.“The real criminals are outside, defended by the capitalist system that increasingly spreads in the minds of the weak,”  said.There was no immediate comment from the Angolan government on the alleged cyber attack.Beirão, who holds dual Portuguese and Angolan nationality, has a loyal fan base in , the colonial ruler of Angola until the country won its independence after a protracted war in 1974.Amnesty called for the immediate release of the activists, 15 of whom were detained  in the capital Luanda last June.“Angolan authorities use the criminal justice system to silence dissenting views,” said Amnesty director Deprose Muchena.“The activists have been wrongly convicted in a deeply-politicised trial. They are the victims of a government determined to intimidate anyone who dares to question its repressive policies.”At the sentencing, about 30 protesters outside the court yelled “free the youths, arrest dictator Jose Eduardo dos Santos”, the president of  since 1979.A man who shouted inside the court that the sentences were a “travesty of justice” was himself sentenced on Tuesday to eight months in jail.The jailed activists insist they are peaceful campaigners lobbying for Dos Santos, 73, to step down.This month, he said he would retire in 2018  following two similar pledges in the past. His current mandate ends at the end of next year.</content>
<class_name>Angola,Anonymous,Africa,Hacking,Portugal,Protest,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:26:58+0100</date>
<title>Anonymous hacks Angolan government after activists jailed</title>
<content>Jared Schumacher is one of hundreds of thousands of New Jerseyans who routinely  as they walk outdoors.If a “distracted walking” measure recently proposed by a state assemblywoman becomes law, the Trenton man and others like him could face fines or even jail time.“I admit that I’m usually listening to music, talking on my phone or texting while I’m walking around,” Schumacher, 20, said while responding to a text as he walked along a street in the state capital last weekend. “I’ve never hurt myself, but I’ve seen people walk into poles or trip over a big crack in the sidewalk.”Experts say distracted walking is a growing problem, as people of all ages become more dependent on electronic devices for personal and professional matters. They also note pedestrian deaths have been rising in recent years. In 2005, 11% of all US fatalities involved pedestrians, but that number rose to 15% in 2014.The rise in deaths coincides with states introducing bills that target pedestrians and/or bicyclists. For instance, a bill pending in Hawaii would fine someone $250 if he or she were to cross the street while operating an electronic device. Similar bills have failed in states including Arkansas, Illinois, Nevada and New York.“Thus far, no states have enacted a law specifically targeting distracted bicyclists or pedestrians,” said Douglas Shinkle, transportation program director for the National Conference of State Legislatures. But he added that “a few states continue to introduce legislation every year”.The measure recently introduced by  assemblywoman Pamela Lampitt would ban walking while texting and bar pedestrians on public roads from using electronic communication devices unless they are hands-free.Violators would face fines of up to $50, 15 days imprisonment or both, which is the same penalty as jaywalking.Half of the fine would be allocated to safety education about the dangers of walking and texting, said Lampitt, a Democrat.Some see the proposal as an unnecessary government overreach, while others say they understand Lampitt’s reasoning. But most agree that people need to be made aware of the issue.“Distracted pedestrians, like distracted drivers, present a potential danger to themselves and drivers on the road,” Lampitt said. “An individual crossing the road distracted by their smartphone presents just as much danger to motorists as someone jaywalking and should be held, at minimum, to the same penalty.”The main question raised about the measure, though, is whether it can be enforced consistently by police officers who usually have more pressing matters to deal with. Schumacher is among those who feel that rather than imposing a new law, the state should focus on distracted-walking education.Lampitt said the measure was needed to dissuade and penalize “risky behavior”. She cited a National Safety Council report that showed distracted walking incidents involving cellphones accounted for an estimated 11,101 injuries from 2000 to 2011.The study found a majority of those injured were female and most were 40 or younger. Talking on the phone was the most prevalent activity at the time of injury, while texting accounted for 12%. Nearly 80% of the injuries occurred as the result of a fall, while 9% occurred from the pedestrian striking a motionless object.The most common injury types included dislocations or fractures, sprains or strains and concussions or contusions.The proposed New Jersey measure has not yet been given a scheduled hearing.</content>
<class_name>New Jersey,Mobile phones,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T16:35:43+0000</date>
<title>Walking while texting could mean jail time under New Jersey proposal</title>
<content>Amazon has banned USB-C charging cables that do not comply with specifications, awhich are considered dangerous as they can damage devices they are used with and potentially cause safety risks.The , which includes a reversible connector that can plug in either way up, was designed as the do-it-all cable capable of charging computers as well as smartphones, tablets and other low-power gadgets.Amazon’s move sees it acting as a de facto quality control agent for the USB-C cables, helping users steer clear of much needed but sub-standard products. Many USB-C enabled devices come only with USB-C to USB-C cables, not with cables for plugging into older chargers or computers – which commonly have USB-A connections.Designed under the USB 3.1 specification, USB-C can deliver a larger amount of power than older USB cables allowing them to be used to charge computers such as Apple’s MacBook and Google’s Chromebook, both of which require significantly more power than smartphones do.To do so, USB-C cables have a 56k ohm resistor that allows the power supply and the device plugged into it to work out the correct power level that suits both ends of the charging party, making sure the device does not draw more power than the plug can supply.Unfortunately some USB-C cables have been made with the incorrect resistor, typically only 10k ohm, which means that it is possible for the device to draw more power than the plug can safely supply or potentially for the plug to push more power than the device can take. Others are wired incorrectly, which could destroy whatever they are plugged into.Google engineer Benson Leung has been leading a campaign to try and weed out problem cables, checking them for their specification compliance and singling them out on Amazon. One cable was dangerous enough to  in the process of testing it.Dead USB ports on computers are also reportedly an increasing problem, where someone has plugged a phone into a computer not capable of providing enough power for its fastest charging rate, using a cable that hid that risk from the smartphone demanding that power.It’s very difficult to know which cables can be trusted, something that has finally prompted Amazon to clamp down.The retailer’s new terms specifically state that : “Any USB-C (or USB Type-C) cable or adapter product that is not compliant with standard specifications issued by ‘USB Implementers Forum Inc’.”: “What does this mean? It means that cable manufacturers who sell poorly made or intentionally deceptive USB TypeC cables and adapters are banned from Amazon, officially.“It’s really great news, but we all have to continue to be vigilant and call out any bad products we find on Amazon and other stores (both online and brick and mortar) as we find them.”More and more devices supporting USB charging will be sold this year , with the majority of smartphones and tablets expected to use the port. Most will not come with cables that allow these devices to be charged using a standard USB port, meaning third-party cables will play an important role in pushing the universal, reversible cable standard forward.</content>
<class_name>Amazon.com,Smartphones,Tablet computers,Computing,Mobile phones,E-commerce,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:51:32+0100</date>
<title>Amazon clamps down on dangerous, laptop-destroying USB-C cables</title>
<content>The FBI agreed to help an Arkansas prosecutor unlock an iPhone and iPod belonging to two teenagers accused of killing a couple, just days after the federal agency announced  to an iPhone linked to the San Bernardino gunman.The FBI announced on Monday that it had gained access to an iPhone belonging to Syed Farook, who died with his wife in a gun battle with police after they killed 14 people in San Bernardino in December. The FBI  how it cracked Farook’s iPhone. Authorities also have not said whether the iPhone and iPod in the Arkansas case are the same models or whether the FBI will use the same method to try to get into the devices.Faulkner County prosecutor Cody Hiland said the FBI agreed to the request from his office and the Conway police department on Wednesday afternoon. A judge on Tuesday agreed to postpone the trial of 18-year-old Hunter Drexler so prosecutors could ask the  for help. Drexler’s trial was moved from next week to 27 June.Drexler and 15-year-old Justin Staton are accused of killing Robert and Patricia Cogdell at their home in Conway, 30 miles north of Little Rock, in July. The Cogdells had raised Staton as their grandson.Hiland said he could not discuss details of the murder case in , but confirmed the FBI had agreed less than a day after the initial request.  “We always appreciate their cooperation and willingness to help their local law enforcement partners,” he said. Drexler and Staton have both pleaded not guilty to capital murder, aggravated robbery and other charges in the deaths of the couple, who were both 66. Patrick Benca, Drexler’s attorney, confirmed that he was notified that the FBI had agreed to help unlock his client’s phone. “We’re not concerned about anything on that phone,” Benca said. An after-hours phone call to the public defenders’ office where Staton’s attorney works was not answered. Prosecutors have had possession of the  they say belongs to Drexler since he and two other teenagers were arrested in Texas and brought back to Arkansas days after the July shootings. Staton’s defense attorney was ordered last week to hand over the teen’s iPod, which was in the defense’s evidence locker.Prosecutors said recorded phone conversations between Staton and others since his arrest indicated he had used the iPod to communicate about the homicide plans and that there may be other evidence on the device.  </content>
<class_name>FBI,Arkansas,Apple,iPhone,Mobile phones,Smartphones,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T04:08:03+0100</date>
<title>FBI to help Arkansas prosecutor in unlocking murder suspect's iPhone</title>
<content> has released open source tools for people to build their own chatbots, as it set out its view of the immediate future of artificial intelligence as conversational aids similar to its back-firing Tay experiment. The company’s chief executive Satya Nadella took to the stage at Microsoft’s Build developer conference to announced a new BotFramework, which will allow developers to build bots that respond to chat messages sent via Skype, Slack, Telegram, GroupMe, emails and text messages. “Bots are the new apps,” Nadella said.The announcement came on the same day that the company had after it tweeted about taking drugs and started spamming users. It had only been active again for a few hours after previously being deactivated for making . Nadella said: “As an industry, we are on the cusp of a new frontier that pairs the power of natural human language with advanced machine intelligence.”Several companies are chasing the dream of a chatbot that will be able to do it all for you, integrating themselves into the services users already utilise across mobile and desktop rather than trying to get people to use yet another app.Facebook’s implementation within its Messenger app  combines automated with human responses. Slack’s  acts as the service’s butler, while Google’s Now,  and Apple’s Siri offer similar features through both spoken natural language.Microsoft also has its Cortana voice assistant, which gained additional services and frameworks to allow developers to use it on its own or in conjunction with the Bot Framework.For Microsoft the move is about injecting itself into the lives of those who are not Microsoft service users. Chatbots and Cortana extensions mirror its work with Android and iOS apps, where the company has produced dozens of apps and services, most of them free and decent, for rival platforms.This change of mentality is an important step to making Microsoft more relevant in a mobile space dominated by others. Going to competing platforms, to where users already are to get them hooked onto your services could prove a much more effective strategy than attempting to get them to switch platforms or adopt a Microsoft ecosystem wholesale.Either way, with Microsoft’s successes in China and its abject failure in the US with Tay, the company, like many other big US technology firms, is pushing chatbots hard. Whether they will be genuinely useful for users remains to be seen.</content>
<class_name>Microsoft,Artificial intelligence (AI),Software,Computing,Smartphones,Chat and messaging apps,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:50:32+0100</date>
<title>Now anyone can build their own version of Microsoft's racist, sexist chatbot Tay</title>
<content>onsider this scene at a  state college campus:A futuristic-looking golf cart rolls towards a student walking with her books. When it gets near, it stops on its own, then Brandon Moak leans out and says, “Would you like a ride in a self-driving vehicle?”Moak doesn’t work for Google or Tesla or any of the other research labs started by major automakers. Last year, he and some friends dropped out of the University of Waterloo and started Varden Labs, an automated vehicle startup based out of a rented house just north of San Jose. This spring, the company started loaning the vehicle to various college campuses around the state to give undergrads a ride to class. It doesn’t go very fast and, therefore, doesn’t have to predict how it will drive very far down the road, unlike Google cars cruising at highway speeds. As it moves down a thoroughfare at California State University Sacramento it stops and starts often and the steering system is constantly adjusting itself. But here’s the thing: it didn’t cost a lot to build. And if Varden is able to operate at scale, it’d cost even less.  have long been considered the province for big organizations. But these days, as some of the key pieces of technology have dropped in price and investor interest has soared, even a few college dropouts can get one on the road. That’s set off an investment frenzy among venture capitalists and major carmakers.In March, General Motors announced a $1bn acquisition of Cruise Automation, a startup that sells self-driving conversion kits to hobbyists for highway cruising. Andreesen Horowitz recently invested in Comma, the small automation company started by George Hotz, a hacker who made his Acura drive itself around the Bay Area. Varden Labs meantime has the backing of Y-Combinator, an influential  startup incubator.These startups don’t enable vehicles that navigate fully on their own – they only work in certain situations – intersection-less freeways and closed campuses. But it suggests that as big organizations such as Google and Uber labor on fully autonomous vehicles that can pick people up from the pub or ferry roadtrippers across the country, many consumers may get their first tastes of the auto-future from one of these hot-wired shops.  This now includes students at Sacramento State. On a cool March morning Moak, only 20 himself, sat in what would be the driver’s seat and offered students a ride to class. Reactions ranged from shock to confusion. “I have no control over the vehicle right now,” he boasted to one passenger. For now, Varden is doing short trials at California universities, where the vehicle will do a campus loop or go back and forth down a main drag. In the future, it envisions leaving the vehicles at schools and office campuses.“It means we have a lot less regulations to deal with,” said Alex Rodrigues. “It means we’re a lot safer. That allows us to get going a lot faster than your average self-driving company.”Varden Labs has used limited funds to rent a ranch-style house in the heart of Silicon Valley, the kind twentysomethings often turn into coders’ lairs. The focus with Varden, however, is just as much on hardware as software. They use a 3D printer to make some custom vehicle parts and the garage is littered with tools and vehicle parts.This is all possible because the cost of a key piece of technology needed for some self-driving vehicles has fallen dramatically in recent years. If you look at a picture of a Google vehicle, you’ll notice an unsightly black device on top that looks a little like a police siren. So-called lidars function as the all-seeing eye for many self-driving vehicles. They aren’t cameras, but rather sensors that map their surroundings by sending out beams of laser light. The model on the original Google car cost $80,000. These days, its maker, Velodyne, offers a version for a tenth of the price. That still puts it outside the price range of hobbyists but within reach for many smaller companies. There are of course other challenges in running a self-driving startup distinct from coding a new app. The cars aren’t legal on many roads. The federal government is still working through who is considered the driver. Many auto insurers don’t offer a self-driving package (Varden eventually went with Lloyd’s, known for insuring exotic risks, such as Bruce Springsteen’s voice). And of course, there’s the inherent risk of taking your hands off the steering wheel. Varden said they had to steer clear of Facebook’s founding mantra, “Move fast and break things”.“We’re not allowed to break things,” Rodrigues said. </content>
<class_name>Self-driving cars,California,Silicon Valley,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T14:16:49+0100</date>
<title>Self-driving cars coming to a college campus near you as price of tech drops</title>
<content>Facebook has apologised for pushing its safety check feature to users worldwide in the wake of the .After the deadly attack in Lahore on Sunday, in which at least 69 people were killed and hundreds injured,  users nowhere near the Pakistani city were mistakenly asked if they were safe.Users as far away as Sydney, Honolulu, Brussels, Ontario, Cairo, Hong Kong and New York received the notification care of Facebook’s disaster response feature.Some users received texts to their phones asking “Have you been affected by the explosion?” without any indication of where the danger was.Many more received notifications that said the explosion was in Lahore who were nowhere in the vicinity.It is not known how many people mistakenly received the notification, but Facebook has been contacted for comment.The site apologised for the error .“We activated Safety Check today in Lahore, , after an explosion that took place there. We hope the people in the area of the bombing find Safety Check a useful and helpful way to let their friends and family know they are okay.“Unfortunately, many people not affected by the crisis received a notification asking if they were okay. This kind of bug is counter to our intent. We worked quickly to resolve the issue and we apologise to anyone who mistakenly received the notification.”Users who are in the area affected by the attacks are able  to mark themselves safe and connect with their friends.The feature was first introduced last year, based on a location tool built after the Fukushima tsunami and nuclear disaster in Japan in 2011, with the intention of being used in the case of natural disasters.Facebook changed its policy around safety check in November, after it was criticised for activating it for the terror attacks in Paris but not bombings in Beirut a day earlier.“During an ongoing crisis, like war or epidemic, Safety Check in its current form is not that useful for people: because there isn’t a clear start or end point and, unfortunately, it’s impossible to know when someone is truly ‘safe’,” said vice-president of growth  at the time.Founder and chief executive  are many “important conflicts in the world”.“We care about all people equally, and we will work hard to help people suffering in as many of these situations as we can.”Safety check was  after the bombing in Nigeria on 18 November, a few days later.</content>
<class_name>Facebook,Social networking,Pakistan,South and Central Asia,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T03:24:16+0100</date>
<title>Facebook apologises for sending Lahore bomb 'safety check' to users around the world</title>
<content> has denied that an internet harassment campaign targeting one of its staff was related to its decision to fire her.Alison Rapp, a marketing officer at Nintendo of America’s product development division, Treehouse, wrote a series of tweets on Wednesday evening, informing followers that she was no longer deemed “a good, safe representative of Nintendo”. She claimed that the console manufacturer had fired her due to her outspoken views on feminism, which led to her being targeted by members of 4Chan, Reddit and other video game forums last year. Rapp had also been linked, by some video game groups, with decisions made at Nintendo of America to remove provocative content from localised versions of some Japanese games. It was a move criticised by some gamer groups – particularly the loosely affiliated online hashtag collective  – as censorship.Although Rapp’s role in the localisation process was, according to her, negligible, she became the target of forum users, who scoured her Twitter history and social media posts for incriminating information. It was discovered that in 2012, she wrote a controversial academic essay entitled , which led online critics, including white supremacist site the Daily Stormer, to label her a paedophile. Later, Jamie Walton of the Wayne Foundation, an anti-sex trafficking campaigner,  that Rapp should be fired as a result of the views expressed in her essay.In a series of messages, Rapp said: “About a month after starting, I was asked to not tweet about rape culture because ‘it could become a big story’.’ I was consistently made to worry that getting another tattoo or piercing would mean they’d pull me from public appearances. When I got back from [vacation], Nintendo stripped me of my spokesperson status and did a ‘lateral move’ so I wouldn’t lead games as a [product manager] anymore.”“This was because the [GamerGate] mess meant they ‘looked at my tweets’ and decided I wasn’t a good representative of the company.”In an official statement , a Nintendo spokesperson claimed that the termination of Rapp’s employment was in fact due to her breaking company rules by taking a second job. “Alison Rapp was terminated due to violation of an internal company policy involving holding a second job in conflict with Nintendo’s corporate culture. Though Ms. Rapp’s termination follows her being the subject of criticism from certain groups via social media several weeks ago, the two are absolutely not related. “Nintendo is a company committed to fostering inclusion and diversity in both our company and the broader video game industry and we firmly reject the harassment of individuals based on gender, race or personal beliefs. We wish Ms. Rapp well in her future endeavors.”However, Rapp later responded on twitter, arguing that “moonlighting” was accepted at Nintendo of America, and that the company was using the issue to deflect from its actual grievance: Rapp’s outspoken and problematic social media presence.Since the announcement, high-profile developers and industry watchers have expressed their support for Rapp, and their frustration at Nintendo of America for failing to support its employee through months of widely . Bafta-award winning game developer William Pugh , “Incredibly disappointed w/a company I’ve admired since I was very young. @NintendoAmerica shame on you for not standing behind @alisonrapp.” Ex-NFL football player and gaming advocate Chris Kluwe posted  on the site stating “[Rapp] was consistently harassed , over a period of months, and Nintendo not only remained silent, but decided today to fire her.”Last August, Nintendo of America employee Chris Pranger was  after appearing on a video game podcast without permission and discussing elements of his work at the Treehouse department. Nintendo has not replied to a further request for comment. </content>
<class_name>Nintendo,Games,Controversy,Gamergate,Feminism,Technology sector,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:18:44+0100</date>
<title>Nintendo denies Alison Rapp firing is linked to harassment campaign</title>
<content>An Australian who waited outside Sydney’s  dealership for 48 hours has become the first person in the world to order its hugely anticipated electric car.Andreas Stephens pre-ordered the Model 3, an as-yet-unseen model expected to retail for about A$45,000 (US$35,000) when it is eventually released in Australia in 2018.Stephens, who drives a Toyota Corolla Seca,  he does not have a garage: “I’ve got two years to build one.”SBS  line of people waiting to place orders stretched more than 20 metres outside the Tesla dealership in St Leonards, in Sydney’s north, on Thursday morning.Australia was the first market to be able to order the Model 3 globally, ahead of its official release in the US in late 2017.About 200 people paid $1,500 to reserve a spot for the model – Tesla’s take on an “affordable” consumer car – from 8am. Before the store opened, Tesla staff walked the length of the queue handing out food. the men and women were not “of the generation that you’d usually see queuing for new gadgets”. “They’re generally older – mid-20s up to middle age – and they’re well dressed.”It also estimated that Tesla had raised at least $250,000 in individual pre-orders.The car will be officially unveiled tomorrow in California, but leaked specifications suggest it is a four-door sedan, with a 480km driving range and an acceleration time of 0-100km/h in fewer than four seconds for the top version. Priority in the queue for the Model 3 is given to current owners of the Tesla S, which retails for A$91,000.</content>
<class_name>Tesla,Electric, hybrid and low-emission cars,Motoring,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T06:22:47+0100</date>
<title>Australian first person in the world to order Tesla Model 3 electric car</title>
<content> is set to become the latest tech giant to provide adblocking features for its users, providing further concern for publishers dependent on revenue from online ads.The tech company, , plans to build adblocking features into its Microsoft Edge browser, which is replacing Internet Explorer.This move would mean that users of Edge would no longer have to add adblocking extensions such as Adblock Plus to their browsers.According to Microsoft’s website 200m devices are running Windows 10, which introduced Microsoft Edge.The move adds to the woes of digital publishers, which in the past year have seen several large technology companies introducing measures making it easier to block ads. In September, Apple began allowing third-party apps to block ads in its Safari web browser, and Samsung earlier this week began rolling out an update to its smartphone browser that automatically blocks ads. There was also  that it plans to introduce adblocking across its UK and Italian networks, making it the first European operator to do so.It said the move was not an attempt to “eliminate” all mobile advertising but merely a move to “give customers more control, choice and greater transparency over what they receive”.The fifth most popular desktop browser, Opera, recently revealed it is introducing built-in adblocking.According to ZDNet, Microsoft’s plans were revealed at its Build 16 conference in San Francisco on Wednesday. It was included on a list on slide from a session titled “Microsoft Edge: what’s next for Microsoft’s new browser and web platform”.Google, which makes more than 90% of its revenue from internet advertising, has not revealed any plans for in-built adblocking.</content>
<class_name>Adblocking,Advertising,Digital media,Microsoft,Computing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:37:44+0100</date>
<title>Microsoft 'plans to offer adblocking in Edge browser'</title>
<content>Dyson’s new Pure Cool Link air purifying fan promises to clean up the air in your home, but also marks the first step of the British engineering firm into the Internet of Things.The Pure Cool Link, which comes in both desk or tower versions, is a new version of the company’s luxury fans and adds an ultrafine filter that removes dirt from the air before sending it around your room.Tobacco smoke, cookers and fires, moulds, aerosols and household chemicals can all create significant levels of pollutants in the home. Dyson says the new activated carbon and 360-degree glass HEPA filter – which works in a similar manner to those fitted to high-end vacuums – captures up 99.95% of pollutants in the air in the home, including dust, smells, chemicals, pollen, spores, smoke and anything else 0.1micron or larger.The fan can clean the air in a room in 30 to 60 minutes or monitor air quality to automatically bring it back to safer levels when it degrades.Company founder James Dyson said: “We think it is polluted outside of our homes, but the air inside can be far worse. Dyson engineers focused on developing a purifier that automatically removes ultrafine allergens, odours and pollutants from the indoor air, feeding real time air quality data back to you.”The fan could be particularly useful for allergy sufferers and has a Night Mode setting to make it quieter and dim the LED display when users are trying to sleep.Hugo Wilson, design lead for Dyson, said: “Modern homes have been built to be more sealed against noise and trap heat, which means the pollutants we create inside the home are also trapped and build up to levels up to five times more polluted indoors than out.”Although the impact of indoor pollution is not as well understood as outdoor pollution, a recent  suggested indoor air pollution may cause or contribute to 99,000 premature deaths a year in Europe.A  showed poor indoor air quality inside has short-term effects on asthma, bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and, more rarely, long-term effects. However  said the health effects of volatile organic compounds from air fresheners, deodorants and cleaning products were “generally minor”.The Pure Cool Link also marks Dyson’s entry into the burgeoning Internet of Things (IoT) in the UK through its new Dyson Link app for iOS and Android, which has previously only been available with its robotic vacuum cleaner in Japan and the US.The app will allow Pure Cool Link owners to monitor the air quality, temperature and humidity within the home, set air quality limits, see air quality history and start the fan remotely or on a schedule to clean up the air.The Link app will unify Dyson’s connected devices, of which there are currently two, but the company is expected to expand its Wi-Fi-enabled product line where doing so will help a user control or understand actions taken while they’re not at home. The Link system does not currently integrate with other IoT systems such as  or Apple’s HomeKit, however.The Dyson Pure Cool Link purifier fan will cost £350 for a desk model and £450 for the larger tower, which place it at the high end of the market, in-line with the company’s other fans, heaters and humidifiers. The £50 filter will need to be changed around once a year when the fan is run for 12-hours a day, of which the machine will notify users through the app and display.</content>
<class_name>Dyson Ltd,Gadgets,Internet of things,Pollution,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:01:36+0100</date>
<title>Dyson launches Pure Cool Link air purifier to clean up household air</title>
<content>hat would a zombie who had been half-melted into the ground after a napalm attack look like? Its rotting flesh would be blistered and stretched – like a hot dog that had been left in a microwave too long, says Greg Nicotero, The Walking Dead’s special effects guru and Hollywood’s go-to guy for all things gory.Creatively cooking up these sorts of scenarios and bringing them to life is all part of his job – and his excitement about it is infectious. “Growing up, I wanted to make monsters,” says the 52-year-old, whose special effects filmography includes Reservoir Dogs, Kill Bill, Sin City and Scream. These are just a few; so many gory “gags” (as he calls them) have Nicotero’s fingerprints on them. “My parents took me to see everything that came out in the movie theatre and I was enamoured with films like Jaws and Texas Chainsaw Massacre,” he says. He became more and more intrigued by special effects. “I started collecting movie posters and would spend all my time redrawing from the magazine .” After watching George A Romero’s cult classic Night of the Living Dead, Nicotero knew zombies were his calling. And as luck would have it, Romero, the godfather of zombie movies, lived less than an hour from his home in Pittsburgh. “Hollywood came to me in a weird way,” he says. Nicotero’s uncle, a local actor, had a bit part in Romero’s latest film and brokered an introduction for the teen.“At that point I still saw special effects as a hobby – I went to college to study pre-med and even turned down a job George offered me on his new film, Creepshow.” Then came an explosion of special effects movies: The Thing, Blade Runner, ET, American Werewolf in London, and Poltergeist all burst on to the scene in the first half of the 1980s. “All of a sudden the stuff that was a hobby of mine was becoming mainstream and I realised I’d made a mistake,” he admits. So when Romero offered the then 19-year-old a job as a makeup effects assistant on his film Day of the Dead, Nicotero packed in medical school and never looked back.His first zombies were the ones that lurched in the background of the shot and he would spend his days sculpting wounds and dressing blood for the undead. Working under special effects legend Tom Savini meant he learned his trade from the best. “It was the greatest feeling – every day was an adventure and it was exciting, new and fresh; I am proud to say 32 years later I still have that same excitement.”Things snowballed from there and in 1988 Nicotero set up his own company, KNB SFX, with makeup artists Robert Kurtzman and Howard Berger. He went on to win an Academy Award for achievement in makeup for The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe. I ask what he loves most about his job. “Everything,” he flashes back, before giving me an animated lowdown on just how effing-awesome it is.Nicotero predicts an influx of young people on the special effects makeup scene within four or five years, inspired by shows such as  and Game of Thrones. “While movies are using more CGI [computer generated imagery], television is embracing more practical makeup effects and putting it in front of more people on a week-to-week basis,” he says.If someone is interested in becoming a special effects professional today, there is an infinite amount of information on tips and techniques on the internet to get started. “There really is no excuse to say I don’t know how to do it.” Nicotero’s advice is to document every piece of work to chart improvements. “People send me their work and that’s how I notice them,” he says. “I always encourage people to take extensive photos of their makeups which are worthy of presenting in a portfolio.”An aspiring special effects professional might be encouraged to know that barbecued meat (for flesh eating), corn syrup (for all that blood), and hair conditioner (for lank and greasy hair) are all part of Nicotero’s artillery on the set of the Walking Dead. “I noticed that hair isn’t ever really addressed in other zombie movies – they have great rotted faces but their hair looks normal,” he says, hence the conditioner. “When a crowd of extras go past you onset I think, hey, you smell really nice for a rotted person.”He and his team will work on dozens of zombies (or walkers as they are known in the television series) every day, with each taking at least 90 minutes to get ready. Nicotero now works as a producer and director on the show, but says he still gets his hands dirty, and even plays a walker himself from time to time. Amusement parks and the yearly hype around Halloween are burgeoning industries that help cultivate young talent, says Nicotero. “A lot of the people who work on The Walking Dead started at a local haunted house attraction, they get their skills making masks and doing makeups,” he explains. “It’s a tremendous proving ground and one you can practically find in your backyard.”A lot of the talented young people he sees are women. “When I was growing up I think gore was more taboo. Seeing people being eaten and disemboweled and killed on screen, that was a male fascination.” Not any more. And any final advice? “Just try not to get overexcited about putting blood all over everything and cover up beautiful work – it can be very tempting to go crazy.” </content>
<class_name>Work & careers,Job hunting,Zombies,The Walking Dead,Television,US television,Special effects,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-22T07:00:31+0000</date>
<title>Making up the Walking Dead: 'Growing up, I wanted to make monsters'</title>
<content>The  film festival ran for 17 days in February and March. It took place in 26 locations, including pubs, churches, assembly rooms and village halls, across Herefordshire, Shropshire and the Welsh Marches.We’ve learned a lot in the festival’s 14 years about running rural arts events at this time of year. Here are my top tips:This is the advice I return to most.  (the touring cinema branch of Arts Alive, which takes big-screen films to rural communities) works as a network: each village or market town has a promoter who knows their audience, has direct contact with them and chooses suitable film titles. The central organisation books the film and helps with marketing. Borderlines operates in the same way, supplying a menu of festival titles from which to choose, but the final selection is made locally. Our marketing works with similar principles: we supply the materials, and the promoters and volunteers (who know about the best places to leave brochures or display posters) distribute them.Allow for idiosyncrasies. We don’t dictate how films are shown in each venue in which the festival takes place and we respect that we are working with their audience and process. Screenings are social events and village halls often make a profit out of selling refreshments. Sometimes they like to have an interval, which can be disconcerting for the audience. One of our board members remembers attending a screening of The Counterfeiters at his local village hall. It was just at the point when one of the German guards had urinated on a prisoner that the projector was switched off, the lights went up and a voice boomed: “Tea!” Films with local connections, particularly archive material, are also a boon for attendances.It may take time to overcome people’s prejudices against subtitles, but cinema that takes you to far-flung areas of the globe has been proven to be immensely appealing. The Ethiopian debut feature , which we showed before its UK release (so no reviews or word of mouth promotion) completely sold out. Within the context of the festival, we often have full or nearly full venues for fairly obscure foreign titles, which in a London indie cinema might only attract a handful of people. Here, they are perceived as different and special. A recent  in Little White Lies movie magazine hit the nail on the head when it said that small film festivals are “world cinema’s Médecins Sans Frontières”.The social factor of film festivals is important, so it’s advisable to provide social spaces where people can meet and discuss what they’ve seen. We’ve sought to engage with our audiences in other ways too, giving credence and value to their opinions. At our main venue, The Courtyard in Hereford, where we screened about seven films a day, we instituted a voting system so that people popped their ticket stubs into boxes with one- to five-star ratings. We published the results on a noticeboard that was scrutinised intently as the festival progressed. We also did analogue tweets: we had a dedicated  that recorded what audience members commented on Post-it notes about the films.Lots of people who live in the country have sophisticated tastes. Their joy at discovering the richness of cultural choice on offer at least part of the year knows few bounds and they will be your strongest advocates. We have little trouble getting people to attend the preview screenings the Independent Cinema Office (ICO) negotiates for us. Our audiences, whether lifelong locals or former urbanites, respond to the challenge of seeing something new and untried.Poor communication is one of the undeniable challenges that rural film exhibition faces. It’s not just distances; broadband underperforms and there’s barely a mobile phone signal to be had in some parts. That means kissing the idea of live tweeting goodbye. But the effort of making contact makes it all the more worthwhile, whether it’s a quick exchange over a garden gate or sitting down over a cup of tea for a longer chat. What’s hardest about arts in rural areas is also what makes it most necessary and rewarding.</content>
<class_name>Audiences,Communications,Rural affairs,Marketing & PR,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-22T15:50:56+0000</date>
<title>The reel truth: six tips for building strong rural film audiences</title>
<content>very year, in Britain at least, the bestseller lists seem to bring news of another hit book on how our language is going to the dogs. As the eye-popping sales figures of authors such as ,  and  show, it’s an irresistible subject.The Oxford scholar Simon Horobin’s new volume, by contrast, is part of an opposing genre of books by serious linguists on why, essentially, we shouldn’t care. Unfortunately the text sometimes slips into tutorial mode. We are treated to quite a lot of Old English, and talk of “preterite” tenses, “weak verb classes”, “inflexional endings”, and so on, as well as intermittent flashes of professorial humour (these days, would you believe it, “trolls are not just found lurking under bridges preying on unsuspecting billy goats, tweeting is not limited to birds, and surfing no longer requires a surfboard”).But Horobin is also on a laudable and more interesting mission – to educate the wider public. Like , Henry Hitchings, , and a host of other learned and witty authors before him, he has set himself the dual task of explaining why our linguistic standards are arbitrary and changeable and why we are nonetheless so invested in upholding them.In seven brisk chapters, he hurries us through the development of Old, Middle and Early Modern English, the increasing 17th and 18th-century concern with correct usage and standardisation, and the 19th and 20th-century heyday of language manuals, prescriptiveness and verbal snobbery. As George Bernard Shaw observed a century ago: “It is impossible for an Englishman to open his mouth without making some other Englishman hate or despise him”: like most modern philologists, Horobin is keen to dispel all remnants of such dialectal prejudice.As in his previous book,  (the answer was yes, but not all the time), he is at his best when illustrating how modern usages that horrify linguistic purists in fact have deep historical roots. “OMG” was used by a septuagenarian naval hero, admiral of the fleet Lord Fisher, in 1917: so get over it. Long before Facebook, Thomas More, Shakespeare and Alexander Pope all wrote of people who’d been “un-friended”. Though Tesco was shamed by grammatical purists into altering the wording of its checkout signs from “10 items or less” to “Up to 10 items”, there’s no sound historical or logical basis for such pedantry. (As Horobin points out, the fact that the tills of its upmarket rival, Waitrose, read “10 items or fewer” cleverly confirms its customers in their false “sense of social and intellectual smugness and superiority”).Instead of bemoaning the supposed illiteracy of texting and social media, Horobin prefers to highlight their creativity and playfulness. (Like any up-to-date media don, though he doesn’t mention it in the book, he himself tweets: you can follow him @SCPHorobin.) He is keen to stress the value of everything from the use of “amazeballs”, to the Brummie accent, to Singlish, Chinglish, Japlish and other mixed tongues.All the same, the book’s perspective is very much the view from an Oxbridge high table. If, as I did, you grew up happily paging through the different editions of  , or if you still worry about the distinction between a jack and a knave, or can’t abide the way that Tony Blair speaks, this historical survey will help you understand why.But its approach will be less illuminating to anyone who enjoys hip-hop, or revels in the prose of , or has ever wondered why all the tannoy announcements at Heathrow airport are nowadays made by a woman (or, rather, a robot) speaking English with a Dutch accent. The fact that English is a world language, even more than it is the mother tongue of most people living in the UK, is gestured to at the beginning and end of the book, but otherwise largely ignored.Looking ahead, Horobin’s focus is likewise on “what the future holds for standard British English”. Other varieties are portrayed mainly as threats to the status of this privileged dialect. As he concedes, there are now far more speakers of English in the United States than in Britain, and American English dominates the world. Yet, like all those British politicians desperate for their nation to punch above its weight in world affairs, he persists in arguing that we plucky Brits are still a linguistic superpower. As English spreads across the world, Horobin fantasises, it’s possible that the upper-class British accent (“received pronunciation”) will end up becoming the new global standard, trumping all others. It’s an oddly parochial stance for a self-proclaimed champion of pidgin and creole languages, emoticons and emojis.He has, of course, set himself an impossible task. The brevity of  means that it inevitably raises more questions than it can answer. Why did the mania for regularising spelling and grammar take off in the 18th century? How far have other European languages evolved in similar ways over the last 500 years? Why have the English always been more obsessed with linguistic class-indicators than other cultures?Inside this svelte tract are several larger and more polemical volumes struggling to get out. But we all need to start somewhere. Faramerz Dabhoiwala’s  is published by Penguin. To order  for £8.79 (RRP £10.99) go to  or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99</content>
<class_name>Reference and languages,Society,Linguistics,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:30:26+0100</date>
<title>How English Became English by Simon Horobin review – ‘OMG’ was first used 100 years ago</title>
<content>For this film, Mohsen Makhmalbaf announces a casting call: thousands of people turn up and there’s a riot to get in. Each participant is channelling their worries and hopes into the desire to be in a film. He interacts with them in this dictatorial way, which makes the film ultimately about power and authority. He demands that people cry on command. One woman becomes so frustrated that she does start to cry, so he says OK, you’ve made it. And she’s so happy, but then there’s the disappointment as she realises this was her moment on screen. She thought there’d be a script and a real film to make afterwards. It’s a devastating, beautiful film.A man pretends to be Mohsen Makhmalbaf, the director of  He insinuates himself into a family’s life out of loneliness, to make friends. At one point the family realise he’s not really the director and have him arrested. The film follows this man’s trial in an Iranian court, and then the real Mohsen Makhmalbaf meets the man and takes him to the family.The impostor’s fragility ultimately embodies what it means to be poor and struggling in life, and through that you feel how sad it is that we live in a world where people are measured by wealth and power, and the cruelty that any human being could ever feel insignificant.This was Errol Morris’s first film. He was taking his time with it so Werner Herzog promised “If you finish this film I will eat my shoe,” . It’s about two families in California who run pet cemeteries, and it looks at humans’ relationships to their pets. It’s an odd mystery, a pet. We eat animals, we use them for labour, but then we keep them in our home as objects upon which we project love that we maybe lack elsewhere. Morris has these carefully crafted tableaux: there’s one continuous shot where a woman has a 15-minute lament, complaining about aspects of her life, and that’s where the film becomes something altogether greater and more mysterious.This was made shortly after the fall of communism in eastern Europe and it looks at two communities on either side of the Czech-Austrian border. There’s an elderly man in Austria looking for a new wife, and he meets a lone single woman on the Czech side of the border.There are these amazing scenes where they go on a date to a funfair and then to a sex museum. She’s much more sexually comfortable than he is, which is a source of incredible comedy. But it’s about desire and love and the fulfilling of our quotidian needs and the necessary, wilful blindness towards our deeper needs because ultimately, to contemplate those needs is to contemplate our own mortality.This is a furious, angry film about neocolonialism in Argentina, and it’s the most devastating look at colonialism I’ve seen in nonfiction films. The sections about Argentina’s oligarchy, and the exploitation on which they thrived, are so poetically rendered that you relate to the horror of dictatorship purely through your emotions.It was made secretly and was screened at illegal opposition meetings, in defiance of the authoritarian rule. People were arrested for screening it. I imagine that seeing it at the time you would come out feeling like you’d have to do something about the situation. There are sections of where I surely had this film in the back of my head.  follows two very talented African American boys in Chicago who get a basketball scholarship to go to a prestigious, predominantly white high school. It follows them for five years and it’s a spectacular example of a longitudinal documentary where you get to glimpse the machinery of life. You get a real sense of time unfolding and the big forces that act on us. The twists and turns are subtle, nothing much happens, and yet it feels incredibly dramatic and compelling because it’s so well crafted and the characters are so beautifully rendered. I watched it repeatedly when I was making my first film, , because it follows young people through this pivotal period in their lives, and I was trying to understand how you could get so much narrative, emotion and character into a film. There’s a scene where the mum is icing a birthday cake for her son’s 16th birthday. It’s an interview, in the sense that the film-maker is asking her questions and she’s talking to camera, but it doesn’t feel like one, it’s so much more cinematic and compelling and the activity is so perfect.This film had its beginnings in a photojournalism assignment for magazine by the photographer about a group of street kids living in Seattle. She persuaded her husband, Martin Bell, to make a film about them. It’s just so intimate that it’s hard to believe the film-maker is actually in the room with these kids. It’s like he’s put on a cloak of invisibility. I could have chosen any number of cinema vérité masterpieces but for some reason this moves me. I’ve made quite a few films with young people and it’s fascinating because the plot of their lives is so close to the surface: one conversation can change the course of your life when you’re young in a way that is rare when you’re older – and you can capture that nano-second when the course of a life’s direction is altered. When you put a camera and a film crew into a room, the observer’s paradox is almost always true – you can’t capture life because you’re in the way of it. But these kids seem unaware of the camera and they’re behaving in a way that feels like life unfolding. The filmmaker is so present with them, you can’t help but understand what they’re going through, and to understand is to feel empathy and to want to help.In this underrated film the iconoclastic Danish director Lars von Trier challenges experimental film-maker Jørgen Leth to remake one of his earlier films, , five times, each time with a different creative constraint. The first “obstruction” imposed by von Trier, for example, was that the film had to be made in Cuba, using shots of no more than 12 frames. Another was that it had to be made as a cartoon. It’s basically these two creative egos going up against each other and it gives a fascinating insight into the film-making process, what goes on in a director’s head and how you cope with stress and constraint and challenge. It’s delicious and playful and there’s never a dull moment watching these two maestros needling each other.This film was made during the early days of the hand-held digital camera, when for the first time you could capture something high-quality enough to show on a big screen on a camera that would fit in your handbag. It’s an essay about the people who pick through other people’s leftovers, whether it be the remains of the harvest in the countryside, or in cities. It’s very casual, but Varda is so astute and the quality of the film-making is such that it becomes something very beautiful, a meditation on life. We’re having this golden age of documentary right now and it’s being driven by technology. In the past you would need to write a script first because the editing process was so laborious but now you can shoot a whole bunch of stuff and capture life in a way that you couldn’t before and this film, shot by a 72-year-old woman using a very low-key format, shows you just what level of artistry is possible.I’m fascinated by longitudinal film-making and this series, which has followed the lives of 14 British children since 1964, when they were seven years old, showed me what the medium was capable of. This series is head and shoulders above any other attempt to record dramatically a whole human life. And because it’s a whole group of people, you learn not just about the individual but also about the system in which they’re living. I can’t think of any other artefact in our culture that can tell us so much about Britain in our lifetime and how society is evolving as this body of work. It’s illuminating and fascinating and it’s one of the things that inspired me to do the work that I do. What really impressed me about this film was its concision. It’s about the Holocaust, but it has a simple and horrible beauty to it, because it describes the terrifying nature of the Holocaust through a powerful series of images and a narration that was specific, naming the collections of items of the prisoners and survivors. It’s the cruel poetry of detail that is so heartbreaking: the handles of the ovens, the fingernail scrapings on the ceilings of the cells. We see piles of combs, shaving brushes, shoes and a vast mountain of human hair. It took something so horrible but found a way to go to the heart of the matter through simple details.Here you see the Rolling Stones on tour singing about sympathy for the devil, but their posturing about satanism blows back at them at the Altamont music festival. It’s structured like a detective story: it starts with a murder – a Hell’s Angel stabs somebody who seems to have a gun in the audience – and then you go back in time. Maybe one of the most powerful scenes is of the Stones listening to a playback of Wild Horses in the studio. It’s stunning in its simplicity. That film went way beyond a concert show; it celebrates music but it’s really about a moment in time and how dark forces get unleashed. It’s powerful both in its observation and its analysis, which is a rare combination.This is maybe the greatest sport film ever made. It has wonderful cinema vérité footage of the “Rumble in the Jungle”, the famous 1974 fight between Muhammad Ali and George Foreman. Gast has the most magnificent material, particularly in Muhammad Ali on a run, dancing, gooning for the camera, at his most charismatic. And then the brooding figure of George Foreman. But Gast wasn’t able to put that footage together, and in comes Taylor Hackford, shoots some interviews with people who were there, notably George Plimpton and Norman Mailer, and through their recollection you also have a sense of analysis and understanding rather than mere observation. So it’s combining those two things in the film that really is magnificent. This is a detective story that’s very much in the first person. It’s about identity, trying to understand your childhood, and ultimately paternity. Sarah Polley is digging back into the relationship between her mother and father, who she discovers isn’t her biological father. In some quarters she was criticised for using a series of fictional home movies that she manufactured, but it didn’t bother me at all – they might as well object to dreams and memories, because those are everyday recreations. The trick is finding the poetry in them. It’s a very powerful film about memory and exploration and love, because she comes to appreciate her adoptive father in a way she might not otherwise have done.Part of the small but growing category of the animated documentary,  is really a film about repressed memory, and the recollection of Israeli soldiers trying to understand why they’re having these nightmares. The idea of using animation to convey what is mostly going on inside their heads, in their imaginations, is such a powerful one. It doesn’t become clear until almost the end that the soldiers all took part in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camp massacre in Lebanon in 1982. And the very end of the film includes just the slightest bit of real footage: a woman wailing in the wake of that massacre. It really is one of the most poignant films about the trauma of war.I saw this at film school, then watched it again at a festival a couple of years ago and thought it was so charming, so good. It has a very simple premise. The director is meant to be making a film about General Sherman’s march through Georgia during the American civil war, but he falls out of love with the idea. Instead, the film becomes about his attempts to find a girlfriend, shot as a kind of video diary – an approach that was completely new at the time. It’s so candid and affectionate and lovely, and everyone at the festival loved it. Not many films bear rewatching, but this one does.Nick Broomfield has become much more serious and political in recent years and this is a difficult and committed film. It’s about a man who was arrested in 2010 for killing as many as 100 prostitutes in Los Angeles over a period of 25 years. What’s extraordinary is how he managed to get away with it for so long – the police didn’t pursue because his victims were mostly black prostitutes. It’s a very timely film, in terms of Black Lives Matter and police abuses in the US, and I thought he got it just right. It’s also a really good crime story.This is a film about Bedouin women trying to get solar energy in their village in Jordan. It follows one woman travelling to a college in India to become a solar engineer. I like it because it’s not saying, “Oh, look at these poor women.” Instead, it shows women actively changing their lives and I found that very inspiring. So many documentaries tell you what to think. This one doesn’t – it puts you straight into the story and you get to know the characters just by watching them. It was part of a very good BBC series on poverty. That’s where all the good TV documentaries are at the moment: on the BBC.I watched this in the cinema, which was good because it’s very beautifully filmed – a real spectacle. It’s set in a reserve in the Congo, which is home to the last mountain gorillas on earth and it follows the people who are trying to save them, as well as the corrupt people trying to get the land to drill oil. There’s a moment when the people in a neighbouring village are attacked. It was filmed so well, I don’t know how they did it. You’re right in the thick of it and you feel so angry, because you know it all comes down to corruption and greed.This is about a Palestinian man who films the destruction of his village’s olive groves by the Israeli army. His cameras keep getting broken by the Israelis, hence the title, but he just kept filming. I think he was feeling: “There’s an incredible wrong being done to my people, I’m going to film it, even if I die doing it.” Then he linked up with an Israeli film-maker, who edited the footage. I remember people saying he shouldn’t have worked with an Israeli, but I thought it was so great that they came together and made something very powerful which showed us what is really going on in Palestine.This was the first truly subversive, playful documentary. It’s notionally a day in the life of a city in the Soviet Union and so it has, on a purely sociological/historical level, great value. But what it does beyond that is to show you the means of production: the filming, the cutting room, the editing– all the things that are going into the making of this film. It’s way before its time, the  of documentaries, if you like. It’s so inventive and it has techniques that, 87 years later, still look pretty revolutionary: the freeze frames and slow motion. It’s just full of inventive and brilliant formal ideas as well as being a very beautiful film to watch. And it’s informative too, showing us the Soviet Union in a halcyon period before Stalin’s terror, when you felt that things were still possible in a new political context. Of course we now know that Vertov suffered in the Stalin era, as many other independent artists would have done, but there’s a sort of optimism and a playfulness to it that you wouldn’t expect from a Soviet documentary from 1929.This is a documentary about an abattoir that was made in Paris just after the second world war. If the film had been shot in colour it would be unwatchable, it’s so gory and weird and disturbing, but it’s in black and white and so it becomes a bit more abstract. There are images in that film that I think are some of the most powerful I’ve ever seen. There’s a surreal sequence where lots of sheep have been beheaded and they’re all dancing without their heads on this conveyor belt. It’s like a bit of choreographed horror, but it’s all real. The director Georges Franju went on to have a career doing very artistic horror movies in French cinema, most famously a film called In this film, Watkins takes a possible scenario – a nuclear attack on London – and shows you very carefully, each step of the way, what is likely to happen. It was banned by the BBC for many years because it was just too harrowing a depiction of a reality that everyone at that time was very concerned about: this was in the middle of the cold warand at the time there were dozens of warheads pointing at us. It’s like a documentary made by Brecht – you’re staging something to flush out a reaction in the audience, and that reaction is one of utter horror. Some people would say this is not a documentary because everything was staged, but it’s a speculative documentary – the director is saying: “This is how it could be and I’m going to show you this in a way that’s very truthful.”It’s very responsible, even if the imagery is very disturbing: you’re seeing bobbies firing at people in the street, people with their clothes burned off. His information is sourced directly from the government and based on scientific fact, so the bed of it is factual, and people responded to it as if it were a real documentary. It’s a brilliant and bold piece of film-making. He’s reinventing the documentary and subverting it. In my view there should be no rules and no boundaries to film-making, and the impact this film had shows you how much he got right.This is a trilogy of films that chronicles the coup against the democratically elected leftwing government of Salvador Allende. It shows you the breakdown of a society and the triumph of the greater evil once there’s a political vacuum so it’s a very strongly political film but it’s also, dare I say it, incredibly exciting. For me, this is the first great example of a film-maker being there while it’s all actually happening and there are moments in it that are utterly heartbreaking. Notoriously, there’s one point where they are filming a demonstration and you hear a gunshot and you see the camera just fall down and tip over and the cameraman has been shot and killed. That shows you the terror of these situationswhere no one is safe from the forces of darkness, but also the commitment of the film-maker to document this, to extract a proper historical document from these terrible events. It’s a work of great bravery and definitive historical significance.Wiseman is probably my favourite film-maker in fiction or nonfiction, and  meant a lot to me because I made a film [] that emerged from some of its ideas. It’s a portrait of a primate experimental laboratory in Texas and there’s imagery that you cannot forget. You see operations on animals that are still alive, their brains being looked at while they’re still twitching around, so it’s very disturbing and upsetting. It’s an interesting window on the hubris of science, which does things for its own sake because it can do them. A lot of the experiments done in this laboratory seem utterly pointless.Wiseman is a purist. He doesn’t use commentary, he doesn’t use music, he doesn’t use interviews, he just observes things and then finds a rhythm in his cutting room to show you the reality, usually of an institution, and the human fallibilities of institutions.  is really about the humans, not the animals. The animals hold a mirror up to people in that institution, and we don’t pass that test very well. It’s so rare that someone’s life has been so well documented. From when Amy Winehouse was very young right up to the time she died, people were filming her: her family, her friends, the media. I absolutely loved the way Asif Kapadia told her story using all that footage – as if he was with Amy her whole life. As a viewer, you really get to know her and understand what she went through. You’re cheering her on, hoping that she does get over her addiction, does beat the paparazzi, does come out on top. The film made me realise how much of her life was not in her hands.I was amazed that this film was shot on a camcorder, because it was so beautiful and it showed Iraq in a completely different light. All the images coming out of Iraq at the time were images of war. This showed what everyday life felt like – it was almost as if the director was shutting the war out. You felt the violence, but he doesn’t show it. The film records three different perspectives. One storyline follows a young Sunni boy without a father in Baghdad, another shows you the followers of the Shia cleric Moqtada al-Sadr in the south, and in the third you’re with a Kurdish family in the north who are happy the Americans are there. It also tracks how Iraq has changed from one generation to the next.Cuba was a mystery to many people when this film was made. It was under sanctions and closed off to the US. With , it was as if Wim Wenders put aside the sanctions, the politics, and played with the language of music. These musicians and their stories moved people, whatever their politics. The film put you on the streets of Havana, you saw how people ate, how they interacted with each other, the way they danced and sang. Even without being political, the film is political, because it shows you what life was like inside Cuba at a time when the only perspective you got on the country was through a news lens.This film showed me that documentaries can change the way people look at things. It’s centred on a murder that took place in 1976: a young man stole a car, picked up a hitchhiker called Randall Adams and later a policeman was shot and killed by someone in the car. Adams was given a life sentence for the murder but Morris’s documentary showed, by exploring the testimony and the way the police put the case together, that he had been wrongly accused. A year after the film came out, Adams was released from prison. That was the bit about the movie that really shook me. It oscillated between art and activism. It was a gripping drama but it also had an impact in the real world.This was a landmark film for me because it made documentaries popular – people who didn’t normally watch documentary films watched this. It tells the story of the Columbine high school massacre and the investigations that followed, but more than that it tells you about the National Rifle Association, about gun violence, about how schools in Michigan had become battlegrounds. His interview with Charlton Heston, who was the NRA’s president at that time, was very powerful and I remember the scene where he goes into a bank and gets a free hunting rifle for opening an account. On the way out, he asks: “Do you think it’s a little dangerous handing out guns at a bank?” He told the story beautifully and he asked the questions a viewer would want to ask. This was a BBC documentary made by my father in the 1980s. I remember he took me on a trip to New York when I was eight years old and I ended up watching it over and over again. It just really blew my mind. I’d never been out of the UK and suddenly I was seeing this extreme wealth on show in New York and at the same time being hit by the extreme poverty in my dad’s film. I’ve chosen it because I think that’s where my whole drive to change things for the better came from. It shows five different stories from different parts of the world. It’s a bit similar to , but back then it was considered groundbreaking. It was telling the stories that the rest of the media weren’t telling and the one that stuck with me was the story about a little boy my age in India who was having to sell peanuts on the side of the road in order to make money for his family. That was my introduction to the concept of inequality. Inequality is obviously one of the key issues of our time and I think this is the best film I’ve seen on the subject. The film-makers were following this mega-rich American family, the Siegels, who were building the biggest house in the United States – a mansion in Florida inspired by Versailles – and then the financial crash happens and they lose lots of money and they can’t finish it. They’ve got lots of children who are being looked after by a Filipina nanny, who we learn hasn’t seen her own children for years because she can’t afford a ticket to go home. The thing that really stayed with me was when the children’s pet lizard dies because nobody had fed it and it turns out that they didn’t even know they had a pet lizard because they’re so overwhelmed with material possessions. Everyone in the film is unhappy, the ones who’ve got too much stuff and the woman who can’t see her own kids. It’s an amazing example of the story of a major global issue being told in a very small way, in this case through a dead lizard. This is perhaps an odd choice, because I haven’t actually seen it as I find the subject matter too upsetting, but I’ve chosen it as an example of a documentary that sets out to change something material and succeeds. It’s about Tilikum, a performing killer whale being kept in captivity at SeaWorld. In the last few weeks, SeaWorld has announced that . It shows how one extremely powerful documentary can work alongside campaigning and holding demonstrations to bring about change. is by the far the most powerful anti-war film I’ve ever seen. It was shot just after the first Gulf war, when the Iraqi oilfields were famously set on fire. The film is essentially just a continuing aerial shot of these burning oilfields set to beautiful music. It’s completely mesmeric and beautiful in an apocalyptic way, and it just goes on and on. You can’t believe how big, how many and how endless these oilfields are, or how wanton the destruction is. And just when you’re thinking “OK, I’ve had enough” it cuts to a mother and a child and the mother just tells the story of what happened to her family during the war, and then she says, of the boy who is about five years old: “This child has never spoken again.” And that’s all there is to the film. It’s so bold. You have to be Werner Herzog to get away with that.I’ve chosen this as a bit of light relief, because it’s rip-roaring fun. The film follows the heavy metal band Metallica as they go through group therapy. God knows how the directors ever got permission to do it, but it’s just so incongruous to see these ageing rockers discussing their personal problems in such an open way. What strikes you is the difference between their tough image and music and the pettiness of their squabbles over who gets the most credit on a record. It follows them over a couple of years while they’re rehearsing a new album and searching for a new bass player, but you also get to see them trying to balance their personal lives with being heavy metal performers – you see one of the band members , for example. It’s way more absurd than Spinal Tap, but what’s most strange is that by the end of it I actually quite liked their music and I’m really not a heavy metal fan.I saw this four-part documentary in a single night at a friend’s house in Amsterdam and I was completely blown away. It’s an angry, in-depth look at how the levees failed in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina and what happened in the aftermath. It really moved me and gave me an insight into race relations in the US and what it means to be poor in a developed nation. The images of bodies floating in the water and people trying to save themselves and their neighbours have really stayed with me, and the music by jazz trumpeter Terence Blanchard – who also appears in the movie – is really memorable.This felt more to me like fiction than documentary – I remember watching it and thinking, can these people be real? It’s about a father and son in Long Island who were convicted of molesting children in the 1980s. The film-maker Andrew Jarecki discovered that the family had an archive of home movies from the time, documenting how they coped with the accusations and the trial. What amazed me was the access: I’ve always been curious how Jarecki managed to persuade the Friedmans to bare their souls and let him use the videos. The result is a disturbing portrait of a very unconventional family.What I remember most from this documentary is Werner Herzog’s voice. Ostensibly this is a film about a man called Timothy Treadwell, who spent many summers living among grizzly bears in Alaska and was eventually mauled to death and eaten by an enormous brown bear. Herzog turns it into a much grander meditation on loneliness and man’s relationship with nature. Many film-makers try to be objective and avoid giving their opinions, but Herzog isn’t shy about being authoritative. When he addresses the camera directly in that strange monotone of his, it’s almost like you’re listening to the voice of God.I saw this at a film festival in Amsterdam and it had a huge impact on me. It confronts you with images of war from Chechnya, with a particular focus on the children caught up in the conflict (the second Chechen war that began in 1999). It’s incredibly sad but I really liked that it didn’t try to push a war-is-bad message on you, like a Michael Moore film. It just provides testimony and lets you make up your own mind. I was also struck by the artistic nature of the film-making and how images of war and catastrophe can also be beautiful. I’m sure people had problems with that, but it meant the images stuck with me long after I saw the film.I didn’t know anything about Pina Bausch or contemporary dance before I saw this film – I only went to see it because Wim Wenders directed it. The fact that I really enjoyed it and didn’t want it to end just goes to show what power documentaries can have. Pina Bausch died just as Wenders was preparing to make a film about her, so instead he filmed her dance troupe in Germany talking about Pina and re-enacting her work. One detail I really loved was the way he disconnected the voiceovers from the images of the people who are speaking. It added to the film’s very strong emotional effect. I saw this when I was on a jury at a documentary festival in Nyon, and it was really unexpected. It’s about Finland burying its nuclear waste in a deep, deep cavern, with two diggers silently burrowing into the bedrock. That’s intercut with interviews with scientists talking about how you can leave a signal for future civilisations not to go into this burial chamber. This stuff is so toxic for 100,000 years, so we’re not talking about any sort of signposting we will understand; there may be whole different ways of communication. There was something really affecting about that. And the interviews are fabulous, because they’re very unpromising – just straight-on head-and-shoulders shots of scientists – but they’re humorous and warm and compassionate.They showed this to us when I first went to the National Film School and I absolutely loved it. It’s about the beautiful month of May in Paris, and it starts with a voiceover by actress Simone Signoret, saying as only French people could, “It’s the most beautiful city in the world and against this set, 8 million Parisians act out a play.” And it’s this fantastic springboard into a series of observed vignettes: famous people, shopkeepers, passers-by, mothers, sons, black, white, men, women.It’s like a wonderful complex tapestry – without wanting to sound like a pillock – of life. And this was the first time France hadn’t been at war since 1939, so there’s this beautiful feeling about it.This is the last interview with Aileen Wuornos [who killed seven men in Florida in 1989-90] before she’s executed. There’s a very interesting tension as to whose film it is. She sees it as her opportunity to set the record straight, saying it was self-protection – I thought she came across well and I was incredibly moved by her situation. But on the other hand Nick and Joan are making the film about her. At the end it’s very shocking because he asks her a question she doesn’t like and she’s screaming, “fuck you, Nick”, as she’s dragged off to be executed. And yet you feel it’s something he had to ask, because I suppose in a documentary you have to have the film‑maker in charge.I think that Adam Curtis is a completely independent voice, and he presents situations and current affairs back to us in a radical way.  is a three-part BBC documentary where he addresses al-Qaida and the fact that it’s been very useful for governments to have something to be scared of. In the context of the whole world being terrified of al-Qaida, this made you rethink received opinion; he made us look again at our own world.I love his delivery and the way he uses archive material and music. His style is so unusual and imaginative and rich and draws on all sorts of other cultural references that we have.This is about two female judges in Kumba, Cameroon dealing with cases of violence against women. Kim Longinotto and I work in a very similar way, so I think I appreciate her films even more. It’s difficult to immerse yourself in another culture, and in a different language, when to a European this is a very alien community. Kim always puts herself out to the nth degree: she manages to be in the right place and observe and tell the story through character. I think it’s because of her character – she’s warm, she’s humble, she’s sensible – that she relates to people so well, and boy, does it come across here. It’s a brilliant film. This is the story of an event in 1974, when a French tightrope-walker named Philippe Petit decided to sling a wire between the Twin Towers in New York and walk across it. It’s not an easy story to tell on film, but they did an extraordinary job. I loved the decision to shoot it like a heist movie, showing how Petit and his gang staked out the towers and set up the rope without anyone noticing. The director got across the lunatic absurdity of the whole project and the sense that Petit’s walk was not just a physical feat but also an act of art. Too often, documentaries are painful and difficult to watch, but this was a real pleasure.This is one of Werner Herzog’s less well-known documentaries. It’s an astonishing story about a German-American military pilot called Dieter Dengler who grew up in Germany during the second world war, then went to America, enlisted in the air force and fought in Vietnam. He crashed his plane over Laos and was taken prisoner by Laotian troops, then handed over to the Viet Cong. Herzog takes him back to revisit the whole ordeal and meet his former captors. It’s a remarkable piece of documentary film-making. Herzog later turned the story into a feature film called , which wasn’t very good. This is the one you need to see.This is Claude Lanzmann’s nine-hour film about the Holocaust. My film  was pretty directly inspired by it, though I would never claim to any of its greatness. What’s remarkable about  is its monumentality: Lanzmann wanted to make a monument out of a documentary, and he didn’t care if you thought it was too long because the extraordinary nature of this event – the organised, mechanical destruction of human beings over an extended period of time – cannot be told in 45 minutes or an hour. It’s painful to watch but magnificently made. His meeting with Jan Karski, the Pole who reported what was going on in the Warsaw ghetto to the allied governments, is almost a film in itself. Lanzmann also finds some of the perpetrators and gets them to talk. Once you’ve seen it, it’s impossible to forget.I think Adam Curtis is in many ways the most important documentary voice on British TV, simply because he puts across mad arguments and compels you to engage with them. This was his first series for the BBC (his best known is probably ) and his imaginative use of archive material is completely striking. The subtitle is “A Fable from the Age of Science” and it deals with a lot of things he’s fascinated by – communism, game theory, DDT, nuclear power – weaving them together in a very original way. It’s really worth seeing if you can find it.This is a great documentary series made in China in the early 90s. Agland was an anthropologist and he’d already made a wonderful series in the 80s about the Baka tribe in Cameroon. For , he spent several years in a small town in Yunnan province telling the stories of various characters he met. He focuses on normal people but in doing so tells us about China’s past as well as its present and the monumental change that was coming. It was beautifully shot, because he’s a very fine cameraman, and very memorable. Television’s contribution to the documentary form has been huge and this is television at its best. </content>
<class_name>Documentary
(Film),Documentary
(Television & radio),Alex Gibney,Joshua Oppenheimer,Man On Wire,Franny Armstrong,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T08:00:10+0100</date>
<title>50 documentaries you need to see</title>
<content>he Royal Court is much more than a theatre. It has been, during the 60-year-long tenure of the English Stage Company, both a battleground and a beacon. I only fully grasped its symbolic power when I was out of the country. In 1984 I was attending the annual new play festival in Louisville, Kentucky, when word came through that the Arts Council was considering withdrawing the Court’s funding on the grounds that its commitment to new work had been overtaken by other theatres. The international theatre folk hastily drew up angry petitions protesting at the Arts Council’s stupidity.As one delegate said to me, “there’s hardly a new writing theatre anywhere in the world that doesn’t owe its existence to the Royal Court”. The Court has that effect on people: whatever its occasional lapses, it inspires a devoted loyalty. And, although I’ve had run-ins with various directors, that is certainly true in my case. I was recently accused of a sentimental attachment to  but, apart from the rather more crucial fact that it spurred a whole generation of dramatists into action, it shaped my own life.  how, when I eventually got to see it as a schoolboy in 1957, I stood on the steps of the Court as people came out of the first-house performance on a Saturday night studying their faces to see if they had been changed by the experience: naive but true. When I came to live in London in the autumn of 1964, I also persuaded the Court’s literary manager, Tom Osborn, to take me on as a script reader. After I’d filed several reports, Tom said that  felt I wrote too much like a critic. My services, I gathered, were no longer required. But, if the Court has always been a beacon of hope, it was, especially in the early years, a blood-stained battlefield in which critics were the principal enemy. In 1970  took the extreme step of trying to ban the Spectator’s critic, Hilary Spurling, on the grounds that her reviews were not “helpful”; in this case the Arts Council, to its credit, stepped in and Anderson humiliatingly climbed down. In 1976 there was also a comic fracas between David Storey and the critics. Angered by the response to his play Mother’s Day, Storey lay in wait for us on our next visit and proceeded to remonstrate. I was singled out for a hearty cuff round the ears, which was reported in the press as if I’d been savagely felled by a blow from Muhammad Ali. I still respect Storey for his passionate defence of his play. The Court, however, was like that in those days. There was a sense, under the successive direction of Devine, , Anderson and , that they were carrying on a military campaign against the theatrical philistines and that you were either with them or against them. That shouldn’t, however, disguise their achievements. Their dedication to the work of Osborne, Arden, Arnold Wesker and Edward Bond has been well documented. Less noticed was their early support of women writers such as Ann Jellicoe, Doris Lessing and Caryl Churchill. The Court also broke through the idea that British theatre was an exclusive white man’s club: one of the best of its early plays was Barry Reckord’s Skyvers (1963), dealing with life in a tough London comprehensive, and it introduced Wole Soyinka to London audiences with The Lion and the Jewel in 1966.If the Court was a battlefield in its first quarter-century, it was for several reasons: it was an idealistic cause run by combative directors who often had to contend with fickle audiences and uncomprehending critics. I sensed a change of mood, however, in the years from 1979 to 1993 when  ran the theatre. He had numerous battles to fight. He had to deal with an unsympathetic Arts Council chaired by a Thatcherite appointee in William Rees-Mogg. Money was always tight. He also made mistakes, such as the last-minute cancellation of Jim Allen’s Perdition in 1987, under pressure from his board, because of the play’s alleged antisemitism. But Stafford-Clark’s approach to critics was much more emollient than that of his predecessors. He initiated an annual Christmas lunch in which the assembled hacks would be invited to play games, amounting to moral tests, such as deciding whether a hard-pressed theatre should accept vital sponsorship from tobacco companies. But Stafford-Clark did much more than keep the show on the road in straitened times. He actively encouraged women dramatists, so that in 1989 the Court presented an unbroken run of plays by Timberlake Wertenbaker (Our Country’s Good), Caryl Churchill (Ice Cream), Charlotte Keatley (My Mother Said I Never Should) and Winsome Pinnock (A Hero’s Welcome and A Rock in Water), together with a reading of Clare McIntyre’s My Heart’s a Suitcase. As a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, Stafford-Clark also had a partiality for Irish dramatists, whether of the past like George Farquhar or of the present like Brian Friel, Thomas Kilroy and Anne Devlin. Stafford-Clark, like Othello, did the state some service; it’s astonishing that his achievements have never been officially recognised.Since Stafford-Clark’s departure, the Court has undergone massive changes: for a start, the building itself has had a radical refurbishment. But, rather than chalking up the hits, and occasional misses, of successive directors such as , ,  and now , I would pick out one or two salient factors of the last quarter-century. One is the Court’s progressive internationalism. This is very much the brainchild of , who began running international workshops in 1989. In practice, that meant she’d get dramatists from all over the world to come to the Court each summer and put them through an intensive programme of theatregoing, lectures and playwriting. She also took Court dramatists around the world to offer practical advice. As part of the two-way traffic, the Court has staged plays by the German Marius von Mayenburg, the Russian Presnyakov brothers and the Spanish Juan Mayorga, among a host of others, that are the direct fruit of Dodgson’s determination.I’d also argue that the Court has lost none of its power to shock and disturb. The most famous example remains Sarah Kane’s Blasted, which hit us all amidships in 1995 and left many of us reeling at its visceral horrors and failing to grasp its moral purpose. My own blindness over Blasted did not stop me reacting with  in 2014 to Jennifer Haley’s The Nether, with its vision of a digitalised paedophile fantasy world; my accusation of sensationalism was, however, vigorously rebutted by the play’s director, Jeremy Herrin. It was quite like the old days, except possibly more polite.All this, I suppose, raises the question of what the Court stands for in today’s world, where the competition for new work is fiercer and more intense than it’s ever been. At a time when other theatres, such as the Young Vic, the Almeida and even Rufus Norris’s National, seem very much director-driven, I would say the Court still puts the dramatist at the centre of the theatrical event. It also strikes me as defiantly internationalist in tone and open to experiments with form, as proved by work as various as Stephen Emmott’s Ten Billion, a dramatised lecture on population explosion, or Caryl Churchill’s Escaped Alone, with its riveting mixture of the domestic and the apocalyptic. Over 60 years I’ve had a long love affair with the Court; and, as with all love affairs, there have been occasional rows and break-ups. But it remains for me London’s most indispensable theatre because of its tenacious and single-minded belief that, whatever the interpretative skills of the director, designer, actor or sound engineer, in the beginning, and irreplaceably, is the dramatist’s word.Not only John Osborne’s best play, using the dying music hall as a metaphor for a declining Britain, Olivier’s presence also encouraged other stars to ally their talents to new writers.Peter Gill’s staging of A Collier’s Friday Night, The Widowing of Mrs Holroyd and The Daughter-in-Law restored Lawrence to his rightful place at the centre of modern English drama.Edward Bond’s Saved in 1965 caused more noise but this is a much finer play. In its portrait of Shakespeare wrestling with his incapacity for meaningful action, it raised profound questions about the political impotence of even the greatest artist.Caryl Churchill’s play nailed the success ethos of the Thatcherite culture and asked whether feminism can ever truly advance without social justice. The supreme achievement of the Stafford-Clark era.A modern classic in which Timberlake Wertenbaker used Thomas Keneally’s story of a group of convicts rehearsing The Recruiting Officer to assert the power of drama at a time when theatre itself was under attack.We mostly failed to get it the first time round but Sarah Kane’s tough, troubling play both transports the violence of the Balkan civic wars to a British setting and offers a surprising tribute to stoical endurance.The dramatist as reporter: an astonishing tour de force by David Hare in which he recounted his own experiences in Israel and Palestine.Roy Williams is one of the most distinctive voices around. With sharp ears and keen wit, he showed how urban kids discover themselves through street culture.Mark Rylance’s performance still burns into the memory. But Jez Butterworth’s play was not just a star vehicle but a richly ambivalent affair about a charismatic spellbinder who was also a tragic anachronism.Laura Wade’s play offered a richly funny satire on a brattish, Bullingdon-style Oxford dining club. At a deeper level, it provided a shocking reminder of the way power in Britain is vested in a self-perpetuating elite.</content>
<class_name>Theatre,Royal Court theatre,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T18:00:32+0100</date>
<title>My bruising love affair with the Royal Court</title>
<content>The Guardian’s and Henley Business School are delighted to announce our competition to win a full scholarship, worth up to £17,900, for a new MA in leadership.The winner will receive a fully-funded, part-time place worth up to £17,900 on the  at the world-renowned Henley Business School. Starting in June 2016, this scholarship is designed to offer practical support for aspiring leaders, in employment, looking to develop modern leadership skills.To enter, participants, who must be a member of one of the 15 Guardian professional networks, need to provide three things:The judges will be looking for entries that demonstrate innovative, insightful thinking on the differences between leadership and management and the specific challenges facing 21st-century leaders in participants’ own sector or industry.Full details of how to enter are below. Closing date for entries is 21 April and a small judging panel from the Guardian and Henley Business School will judge the entries. The winner will be announced on 6 May.The Henley Business School MA leadership programme is an new part-time programme developed following extensive consultation with leaders and managers from a wide range of organisations, including large corporates, SMEs, public sector, government and third sector bodies. The aim of the programme is to develop leaders with the skills necessary to address the many complex and difficult problems facing organisations today. Leaders are often put in the position where there is no right answer and they need to choose from options that all have a downside . Leadership today is complex, technical, global and virtual. Many organisations now have models of shared leadership and distributed leadership, rather than just a few leaders at the top of a hierarchic organisation. This programme will appeal to people now taking leadership responsibilities, even if they are not officially called a leader. They may have recently moved into a department manager role, or lead a new initiative or change programme. They may be project managers leading and delivering projects to meet new organisational need or people setting up and running small businesses. This programme is for anyone facing the challenge of leading people to deliver new or changed outcomes.The programme is structured over 24 months to allow programme members to continue working in full-time employment while studying and to connect their learning to their own organisation as well as to current global and organisational issues.1. This competition is open to anyone who is eligible for the Henley Business School MA leadership programme – please see website for full conditions of entry but a minimum five years’ management experience or first degree plus three years’ management experience is required. Employees of Guardian Professional Networks, Henley Business School or University of Reading, their agents or anyone else professionally associated with the competition are not eligible.2. All information detailing how to enter this competition forms part of these terms and conditions. It is a condition of entry that all rules are accepted as final and that the entrant agrees to abide by these rules. Submission of an entry will be taken to mean acceptance of these terms and conditions.3. To enter this competition, entrants must submit their essay by email to  . Entrants must also provide the following information:All elements of an entry must be in English and the essay must be no more than 500 words long. In addition entrants should provide 50-100 words on why they should win the scholarship and a current CV. Entries will not be returned. 4. All entries must be received by midnight on 5. All entries submitted must be the work of the individual submitting them and must not have been published elsewhere or have won a prize in any other competition. It is the responsibility of each entrant to ensure that their essay does not infringe the copyright of any third party or any laws.6. Copyright in all essays submitted for this competition remains with the respective entrants. However, in consideration of their providing the competition, each entrant grants a worldwide, irrevocable, perpetual licence to Guardian Professional Networks and Henley Business School to feature any or all of the submitted essays in any of their publications, their websites and/or in any promotional material connected to this competition without payment to the entrant. The individuals responsible for any essays so featured will be fully credited.7. Only one entry per person. Late, illegible, incomplete, defaced or corrupt entries will not be accepted. No responsibility can be accepted for lost entries and proof of transmission will not be accepted as proof of receipt. Entries must not be sent through agencies or third parties.8. Up to 10 entrants will be shortlisted from all entries received by the Henley Business School, MA Leadership Programme Director. Shortlisted entrants shall be those whose essay displays the most original and exceptional thinking. 9. Shortlisted entries will go before the judging panel who will decide the winner. The decision of the judges is final and no correspondence will be entered into.10. The winning entrant shall win a full bursary to take a place on the Henley Business School MA Leadership programme  Full details of the programme can be found at 11. The winner shall be notified by Friday, May 6, 201612. In the event of the winner being unable to commence the course, Henley Business School will offer the prize to the next entrant on the shortlist, selected in accordance with these terms and conditions. Should the winner withdraw from the course after commencement, Henley Business School reserves the right to offer the prize to the next entrant, as above, or to withdraw the prize. This decision will be dependent on how much of the bursary remains unused.13. No travel, accommodation or incidental expenses are payable to the winner.14. The winner may be required to take part in publicity.15. The winner’s name and county may be disclosed to anyone who writes within one month after the published closing date, enclosing a stamped addressed envelope, to MA Leadership Winner, c/o Pauline Fletcher, Henley Business School, Greenlands, Henley on Thames, RG9 3AU.16. The prizes as described are available on the date of publication. All elements of the prize are non-transferable and there are no cash alternatives.17. Events may occur that render the competition itself or the awarding of the prize impossible due to reasons beyond the control of the Promoter and accordingly the Promoter may at its absolute discretion vary or amend the promotion and the entrant agrees that no liability shall attach to the Promoter as a result thereof.18. Guardian Professional Networks is responsible for the first part of the promotion, which is the publication. All other facilities connected with the provision of the prize are the responsibility of Henley Business School.</content>
<class_name>Leadership and management,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:40:22+0100</date>
<title>Aspiring leaders: win a full scholarship for a new MA in leadership</title>
<content>ast year, the actor Paul Freeman borrowed a chapel in the grounds of a friend’s house, lit the building with candles and played a CD of Gregorian plainchant while wearing his wife’s hoodie as a monk’s cowl. He got the part in Da Vinci’s Demons.It may not sound like a traditional audition, but increasingly, performers don’t have to face a hiring squad in a drab room to try and secure a part. They may not even have to leave the house. Actors, directors and casting directors report a growth in the phenomenon of self-taping: actors are asked to film a scene and email it to prospective employers. To get yourself on screen, it seems, you have to first put yourself on screen. “Self-tape has completely swept the field,” says Freeman, whose TV career stretches from Crown Court in the 1970s through New Street Law to the aforementioned fantasy drama. “It’s now so widespread that to meet a director before a shoot is virtually unknown. Indeed, two years ago, when I met with Werner Herzog for a project, I was so overcome with nerves at this unusual occurrence that I more or less froze.” Jasmine Hyde, whose credits include the just-released movie The Truth Commissioner, says: “I never did any self-taping until five years ago. Now, a third of the jobs I go up for ask for it.” Andy Pryor, a leading casting director whose CV includes  and two other BBC shows due soon on screen – Undercover andA Midsummer Night’s Dream – has also noted the rise of DIY auditions. The obvious benefits, he says, are logistical – “Very busy actors aren’t easily available” – and financial: “Productions don’t always have the money to bring people in and out for an interview.” Self-taping has been a boon to actors like Freeman who live far from London, although its rising popularity is due not to its advantages for actors but because tapes can be sent to the huge number of producers that projects now tend to have, and who increasingly expect to have a say in casting. “When I started,” says Pryor, “the decision was made by the director and the casting director. Now, there can be many more people involved. We often record live auditions so others can watch them later, which we never used to do.” An obvious advantage to home auditions, says Hyde, is that “you can do as many takes as you want.” Freeman concurs, noting he will tape many versions until he’s satisfied with one, but warns: “Actors are assured that the method of taping does not matter, that iPhone results will be viewed as carefully as those filmed professionally. Do not believe this.” Although casting directors insist that simple self-tapes won’t limit actors’ chances, auditionees often go to elaborate lengths. “I have fitted myself out with contact lenses, so I no longer try to learn a script but tape it up all over the room,” says Freeman. “And I have a friend nearby, a former cameraman and sound engineer with state-of-the-art equipment, so my results look good.” One problem is the difficulty of finding a home co-star. This was painfully described in an article by writer-actor , who remembers the withering look from his wife as he laid down a seduction scene and the thriller script that led to worried neighbours rushing round to find the source of blood-curdling screams coming from his house.  E-auditioning has helped ever more Brits find employment in the US and many American and Scandinavian stars are now being cast in the UK. “The technology definitely means you consider many more people,” admits Pryor. “In the past, a foreign actor who wanted to crack America would move to Hollywood and sit by the pool waiting for the phone to ring.” Now, they can keep working at home while courting New York and Los Angeles by email. Even so, for Pryor, “nothing beats face-to-face auditions”, and some film-makers refuse to cast virtually. Tim Fywell, whose TV directing credits include Happy Valley and River, says “self-taping is not an ideal situation”, but the process can produce a shortlist of performers to meet in person. A disadvantage of self-taping is that there is no possibility to discuss a character or alternative readings, which, traditionally, could provide clues about how well a performer responds to suggestions. Fywell will “always direct an actor at an audition to see what you get”. Under the new system, actors who look great on tape may turn out to be inflexible egotists whose talents peaked in front of their smartphones.  Home auditions are fast and cheap, so it’s no wonder actors seem increasingly likely to be asked to self-record, but there is still scepticism on both sides of the camera. Fywell can only envisage self-taping as a “last resort … I always want to meet an actor face-to-face, because the chemistry is crucial.”Freeman, after a five-decade career, has concluded that: “Physical auditions are, of course, terrifying, but rejection is part – perhaps the most stressful part – of our lives. At least with preparation time and the requisite chutzpah, one can take control of the audition.” And who knows, it may not be long before there’s a Bafta award for best self-taped audition.</content>
<class_name>Television,Television industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T16:14:16+0100</date>
<title>Next! The death of the audition</title>
<content>ho’s out dancing on a weekend? All around the country nightclubs fill up with (mainly) young people bouncing until the small hours to amplified bass, getting intoxicated and, maybe, copping off. Yet there’s another, less visible network of clubs where people dance more formally – think salsa, tango, ballroom, jive. Here there is a wider age range, less drinking and lower decibels, and everyone’s likely to be done before midnight. I went to three of them to find out who goes there – and why.My first stop was , which runs classes and socials in London, Sydney, Melbourne and Berlin. At its social in the marvellously atmospheric  in east London, the first people I meet are an upbeat group of twentysomethings who would not be out of place in a nightclub, if it weren’t for the retro frocks and dapper waistcoats. They’re here on a birthday outing for local girl Anna, 27. She’s come because “It’s an amazing venue, and really friendly. I thought everyone would love it.” They do love it – the place, the music, the buzz. “You could go to a pub for your birthday,” says Anna’s friend Dave, “and have some drinks and be shouting in the corner of a bar. Or you can come to something like this, where you make new friends and get to do something more fun.” The people and the place are big pluses, then, but don’t they need to know the steps? “It’s not massively important,” says Anna blithely, though they all agree that a few basic moves will get you a long way. Like many social dance nights, Swing Patrol runs a taster session for newcomers at the beginning of the evening (which doubles up as a great icebreaker). “We learned two moves,” says Greg, another of the group, “and then the teacher said, ‘OK, you’re ready for a night of dancing.’” And were they? “It’s easy to feel anxious at first,” says Dave, “but as soon as you’re dancing that really fades.” That rings true. Out on the dancefloor, some dancers are clearly experts and others just as clearly newbies, but there’s an upbeat, open ambience that makes room for them all.  That includes Pam and Steve, a couple in their late 50s who have come down from Grimsby to spend the weekend with their daughter. But she was off out with her boyfriend on Saturday night, says Pam, “so we thought we’d go out dancing ourselves”. They’ve been learning lindy hop since Pam retired from the NHS last year, and it’s completely changed the pattern of their lives: weekly classes, evenings out dancing – and provided a new social network. “It helps keeps us fit,” says Pam, “because we’re doing something we enjoy. It keeps your brain active too. And you can really adapt the steps to suit your own level.” But fitness is a byproduct: it’s the enjoyment that keeps them coming back. “The music, the dancing – I just love it!” beams Pam. “And it’s so nice to be among lots of different age groups. It makes you feel young.” Will they be back? Put it this way: they’re already looking at the calendar to see when they can next come down to “visit their daughter”.Over at , London’s longest-running Argentine tango club, the atmosphere is as different as the dance style. Where swing is extrovert and outgoing, tango is introvert and subtle, more poetic. Watch the couples revolving around the dance floor like little worlds-unto-themselves, and you sense that the dance is more about inner experience than outward appearance.  La Carablanca also offers tasters for novice dancers. The basic steps don’t look hard – they’re a kind of formalised walking – but turn out to be surprisingly difficult. Thirtysomethings Zuzana and Mario are here on their first visit, and found it a challenge. “Maybe we just have to come again and try to get better,” says Zuzana. “I will definitely try it again,” says her husband Mario. “I like the tango, it’s quite sexy. But in a serious way.”  It’s the second visit for fortysomethings Tina and Barry. They first did a tango as their wedding dance, and Tina in particular – who used to go out dancing ceroc and lindy hop all the time – has long had a soft spot for tango. “It’s quite difficult even though it’s a slower dance,” she says. “But I really like it – it’s sensual. And it’s quite moody – a bit like like me!” Still, Barry has found it hard going. “The music and rhythm aren’t necessarily straightforward, and I struggled with the timing,” he says. “And there are a lot of really good dancers on the floor, which can be intimidating.” For this session, they’re content to watch from the sidelines and enjoy the atmosphere. “Obviously we would rather be joining in,” says Tina, “but I don’t think we’re ready.”Italian friends Mica (43) and Diego (39) are both performers in physical theatre, and talk about tango as a kind of creative challenge. “Each dance is like a relationship,” says Diego. “It’s different with everyone. You have to pay attention to the other, but also to yourself, and to the connection.” “I think it’s good that there are rules,” says Mica. “Having the men lead and the women follow – that is difficult for me! But it’s interesting too.”  It’s notable that where the swing dancers all talked about atmosphere and energy, the tango dancers talk about “connection” – an almost mystical quality that only emerges between two people when they dance. That sense of interiority can make tango sometimes feel like a closed world to outsiders. “Also,” says Graham, 63, who’s here with Carole, 61, “there is a lot of etiquette surrounding tango that you might not know when you’re new. It’s almost like entering a different culture.” Yet for those on the inside, I sense that is part of the appeal: a shared feeling of belonging.  Both the tango and swing evenings follow the conventional model of couple dancing: a man leads and a woman follows (though the swing dancers were more laid-back about members of the same sex dancing together). But does it have to be that way? Jacky’s Jukebox, at the vintage Rivoli Ballroom in south London, is a monthly evening of ballroom and Latin dancing with a predominantly LGBT following, who don’t play by those rules. Whether you lead or follow, and with whom you dance, is a matter of individual preference, not gender. Michael and Sean are a couple in their 40s from Colchester, who met on the dancefloor over decade ago. “I was a bouncer at the time,” says Sean, “and had this idea that dancing was a bit ‘sissy’. But I remember thinking: life is short, they’re not going to put ‘Sean danced with a guy in a bar’ on my gravestone!” They took dance classes together for a couple of years. “The teacher was fine with us dancing together if there was nobody else there,” remembers Sean, “but as soon as someone else was there she used to make us dance in the back room.”  “What’s great about here,” says Michael, “is that everyone gets on. There’s old people and young people, there’s obviously a big gay crowd, and there’s transvestites – and everyone gets on through the dancing!” “That level of acceptance is special,” says Sean. “A lot of my life I had to pretend to be straight, but here people can be as they are.” I ask Gonzalo, 26, and Trix, 29, who can both dance as either leader or follower, why that flexibility is important for them. “The fact that I always had to lead in traditional clubs because I’m a man – and tall – was really limiting my enjoyment,” says Gonzalo. “But when I found a place where I could follow, I started getting more into dancing.” Trix learned ballroom as a child. “After finishing my exams as a follower, it was like: now you can do them all again ‘as a man’. So I did!” She laughs at the thought. “I really like stepping outside those gender roles,” she adds. “Sometimes people get confused, like: there’s a woman asking me to dance?!” And does both leading and following make them better dancers? “Oh, definitely!” they chorus. “You learn different skills, you experience things from both sides, you understand the roles better – you’re a better dancer.” As with the tango and swing nights, it’s not all about the dancing. Colleagues Julia and Rachel – professional violinists in their 50s – come for a drink and a chat as well. “It’s just very relaxed,” says Julia. “It doesn’t matter who you are. It’s all ages, black, white, gay, straight, and everybody dances together. It’s very accepting.” “Wouldn’t it be nice,” says Trix, “if more of the world was like that?”  </content>
<class_name>Dance,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T07:30:00+0100</date>
<title>Care to dance? The secret tribes who make weekends go with a swing</title>
<content>I was rather standoffish at first. There was a site near Gateshead, an old pithead, and . I think there’d been some kind of international competition, but they hadn’t been terribly pleased with the results. I said: “I don’t make art for motorways.” But then I saw a photograph of this mound on the hill, with a deep valley below. It looked like something from the iron age, really extraordinary. So I went for a look. As I walked up to it, I remember a local councillor saying: “We need one of your angels.” It struck me as a good idea: something bearing witness to the men who’d worked there, but also . I realised early that it’d need to be at least three doubledecker buses high. I did a few sketches, pretty thumbnail, and then made models: five or six, hand-size at first, ending with a human-size version. It took about a year. We ended up making an actual-size model of the knees, to understand how the scale would work. The biggest challenge is making a thing that looks as if it’s the right size, rather than a small thing made big.Quite a lot of people didn’t want it: there was a campaign to stop the Angel, . A local paper dug up pictures of some totalitarian winged figure commissioned during the Third Reich and ran it under the headline: . I nearly pulled out – I had no interest in foisting this thing on anyone. But the planners talked me round, the council backed it, and people started to get on board.Right from the beginning, I’d been thinking of ships and the Tyne – a ship’s hull turned inside out. We spent months driving around engineering firms in the north-east in an old van. This was the early 1990s, when the shipyards were going and the mines were being shut. Eventually, we found a place that had what we needed, with specialised welders and plate-workers. The structure was fillet-welded, which is  used to make vessels watertight. That was the magic moment, really, finding out you could make it in 6mm ship-plate. It was thrilling, making weekly visits up to Hartlepool, watching this skeleton turn into a hull. I think that’s why the Angel worked: it was an extraordinary collective effort, requiring thousands of conversations. As it went on, I had less and less to do with it. The Angel was made by the skills of the north-east.The foundations were massive: we had to put in . But that was the easy part, relatively. You just do some sums based on the weight and factor in the wind. It was the ankles that were hard. They had to be slim, even though that’s where all the stress is, that’s where all the hard work is being done. When the wind is blowing on a human being, you move constantly to compensate. Obviously, we couldn’t do that here, so we had to think carefully about how to make them strong enough.The second big thing was the wings: flex is fine, but if they begin to flutter, it’s game over. They’ll tear the structure apart. Antony’s first drafts had tapered wings like a Spitfire’s, but in the end we went for ones that were quite chopped-off. It’s funny: the Angel is huge, it weighs 200 tonnes. But, with the wind and the weather, it was as if it was actually flying.They had to transport the body and wings separately on low loaders during the night. Streets had to be cleared of all their fixtures, and whole areas cordoned off, everyone watching from a distance. I wasn’t worried that it would fall down: in engineering, the things that go wrong are the things that are done so frequently someone forgets to check. Even so, it was a relief when the crane lowered it into place. It felt like a religious experience. I had to talk my wife out of buying a cushion with a picture of the Angel on it. I thought it was a bit much. But whenever I pass it, I think: “That’s nice, I did that.”</content>
<class_name>Sculpture,Antony Gormley,Art,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T07:00:09+0100</date>
<title>How we made The Angel of the North</title>
<content>wing your pants in celebration because next month the V&A traces the history of underwear design in a new exhibition, . What better excuse for a quick flash of popular culture’s 10 most iconic undies moments?Fifties pin-ups Bettie Page and Jayne Mansfield modelled “bullet bras” but the decade’s definitive moment came when Marilyn Monroe stood on a New York City subway grate in  and the breeze billowed up her  to reveal matching pants (two pairs to preserve her modesty).An enduringly sexy – albeit modest by today’s standards – image in cinematic history. In the film adaptation of Tennessee Williams’s , Maggie “the Cat” Pollitt (Oscar-nominated ) lounged on a brass bed in a simple white slip and heels. Miaow.The cover of ’s  album featured two models wearing decadent disco-era lingerie, snapped in front of foliage in Portugal. Deemed so rude, even the Dutch banned it.The scene that turned the toothy titch into a star. In the coming-of-age comedy , the Cruiser’s improvised dance to Bob Seger’s Old Time Rock and Roll saw him sliding across hardwood floors in a pink shirt and white Y-fronts.Her Madgesty popularised “underwear as outerwear”.  provided the costumes for her Blond Ambition Tour, including the infamous . Gaultier first designed it as a child growing up in suburban Paris - for his teddy bear, Nana.The grungy, grittily minimalist mood of the early 90s was personified by topless teen Kate Moss and rapper “Marky”  (minus the Funky Bunch) in Bruce Weber’s black-and-white Calvin Klein ads. Sales of unisex scent and pants with branded waistbands duly soared.Gossard’s cleavage-boosting, push-up bra ruled the mid-90s, thanks to its traffic-stopping billboard ads, starring the Czech supermodel with the saucy caption, “Hello boys”.“Bridget Jones, wanton sex goddess, with a very bad man between her thighs... Mum... Hi.” In the hit film of Helen Fielding’s bestseller, ,  was getting down to business with her boss, Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant), when he discovered her “enormous panties”.A fluorescent green “sling swimsuit” (not, strictly speaking, underwear, but an unmentionable like no other) was  at the Cannes film festival to promote his film . The eye-watering garment has since become a popular stag do and fancy dress outfit. Is nice!Goldenballs became Goldenbulge when  launched his own line of H&M “bodywear” and posed in a pair of £7.99 briefs. His sons saw the semi-naked shots and groaned, “Not again, Daddy.”</content>
<class_name>V&A,Museums,Advertising,Marilyn Monroe,Roxy Music,Elizabeth Taylor,Jean Paul Gaultier,Madonna,David Beckham,Kate Moss,Mark Wahlberg,Borat,Tom Cruise,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T07:30:08+0100</date>
<title>Our top 10 iconic underwear moments</title>
<content>It was a little before 7am on 18 April 2014 when Jennifer Peedom was woken up by the sounds of an avalanche.The Australian film-maker was in her tent on Base Camp at , on location with a camera crew to make a documentary exploring the lives and working conditions of Sherpa people. They are the Nepalese climbers who for decades have escorted tourists up and down the mountain: incredibly risky work for a very small share of the reward.Peedom, 40, was told there had been an accident but only learned the extent of it later. Sixteen Sherpas had been killed, at the time the worst tragedy in Everest history (a year later 18 people perished in another avalanche). The director and her team, specialists in high altitude photography, picked up their cameras and continued filming.“There was never any hesitation in how or why to do that because we were there to make a film about the disproportionate risk that Sherpas take in taking foreigners to the summit of Everest and back down again,” she says.“You’re kind of running on adrenaline and every now and then you stop yourself and realise how upsetting the whole thing is. But then you say, this is what I am here to do. You snap yourself out of it and keep going.”The end product is very likely the . The seemingly omnipotent beauty of Everest provides awe-inducing backgrounds for a truly disturbing examination of worker’s rights.Having taken notice of 2013’s so-called , and having worked on projects on the mountain for the good part of a decade, the film-maker says she could sense things reaching a tipping point and felt a strong urge to be there.“I could never have anticipated that an avalanche would come and kill 16 people. I could never have anticipated that,” she says. “But it felt for me that where things were at politically, tension really was at the point where it felt like anything that was going to happen was going to be the straw that broke the camel’s back.”Norbu Tenzing, who works in San Francisco as vice-president of the American Himalayan Foundation, is a champion of Peedom’s documentary and features in it.He describes Sherpa as “a big, big gift for the mountaineering workers and Sherpas. This is a subject that has always played in our minds and hasn’t been talked about much. This film has given that issue a voice.”Tenzing, 51, is the son of history’s most famous Sherpa, Tenzing Norgay. Along with Edmund Hillary in 1953, Norgay – described by Time as one of the most influential people of the 20 century – became the first person known to have reached Everest’s summit.On the question of what his father might think of the current state of affairs, Tenzing pulls no punches: “I think he would be quite horrified with the way things have turned out. Since the time he was climbing there’s been a complete change, a shift in the way people climb Everest and what motivates them.“The sense of people going on an adventure, working together, doing something nobody’s done before, with a sense of comradeship and working together – that spirit doesn’t exist now.“It’s just a total service industry, where you’re fulfilling the egos of western climbers and people from south Asia who want to test the limits of how close they can get to death, at great expense of the Sherpas. I don’t think my father would want to be alive to see the circus that Everest has turned into.”While praising Peedom’s documentary as an exercise in awareness raising, Tenzing says that since the 2014 tragedy almost nothing has actually changed for Sherpas other than a US$5,000 increase in their life insurance (from US$10,000 to US$15,0000). This, according to Tenzing, “barely covers the cost of the funeral”.“The working conditions haven’t changed. The pay increases haven’t changed. The ways to reduce risk haven’t changed.”Neither Tenzing, Peedom nor the Sherpas themselves advocate shutting down commercial operations on Everest. Sherpa people have limited employment opportunities and rely on tour operations for their annual income.But with few safeguards put in place by the government, and a general reluctance to speak out for fear of repercussions, the terms of their employment are largely dictated by owners of expedition companies. Tenzing describes this as “the foxes minding the hen house”.Out of respect for the victims of the 2014 avalanche, the Sherpas took an unprecedented decision and refused to continue climbing for the season. They also did not climb in 2015, when expeditions were cancelled because of the earthquakes.“The Sherpas are on their way to Base Camp now to start setting up for a new season,” says Peedom. “They have lost two seasons’ income so they are under a lot of pressure to make sure as much as they can that the season goes without incident. Let’s hope that it does.”Tenzing, of course, hopes for the same, but is not optimistic about long-term prospects: “It’s just a matter of time before something like this happens again, because the safety measures are so poor.”“The bottom line is this industry is a massive enterprise. It seems like it’s the wild west, where anybody can do anything and the government rakes in royalties and turns a blind eye to anything else that goes on.”</content>
<class_name>Documentary,Mount Everest,Australian film,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T03:46:03+0100</date>
<title>Sherpa: Norbu Tenzing on the Everest 'circus' and the inevitability of another disaster</title>
<content>early eight years since the launch of the  Play store, have all the good app ideas been taken? Nope. Every month throws up a new crop of interesting, inventive and useful (or just fun) apps and games.Here’s our pick of the month for . Clicking or tapping on an app’s title will take you straight to the store, and prices are correct at the time of writing. If you see “IAP” that means the app uses in-app purchases.There’s a separate monthly roundup for iPhone and iPad apps, with the latest due to be published this week. You’ll be able to find it here.Aimed at children, although Whovian parents will have a lot of fun with it too. This BBC app gets you creating digital comics starring various Doctors, companions and aliens, with a simple interface and a mix’n’match monster creation tool. Fun creative play for kids (of all ages).Nintendo’s first official mobile app is here, although it’s less of a game and more of an avatar-based social app – focusing on the familiar Mii characters. Create a Mii, and send them off as a “social go-between” to friends with quizzes, mini-games and photo-editing built in. Quirky but intriguing. Already available in Japan, the link above will work elsewhere in the world today once Nintendo presses its global-launch button.You’ll need a Google Cardboard virtual-reality headset for this app, which promises to take you inside London’s iconic Abbey Road studios. That includes a guided tour narrated by Giles Martin (son of the late George) as well as a chance to virtually poke around the mirrored drum room, and sit in on an orchestral recording session.Newly available in the UK, this is Nuance’s dictation app which turns your speech into documents stored on the company’s servers, so you can access them from various devices. The app works well – although you’ll need a £14.99-a-month “Dragon Anywhere” subscription to use it after your first week.Another new-to-the-UK app, Deliveroo is one of the “on-demand” startups promising to deliver stuff to your door. In this case, food. You can use the app to order from hundreds of restaurants and takeaway joints, then track the driver as they bring it to you.Launching today, this is Sky’s new app for children in the UK, bringing together shows from kids’ channels from Cartoon Network to CBeebies, with the promise of exclusive shows (new Morph episodes included) later in the year. A future update will also enable parents to set viewing-time limits.Struggling with your inbox? Join the club. MailTime is the latest app trying to help with email clutter – in this case, by making your inbox look more like a stream of chat messages. Photos, documents and voice messages are all supported. A clever idea, with potential for more development.Based on a popular science book for children, this is a beautifully designed app which aims to get kids excited about space. It gets them exploring spaceships, planets and moons with clear text and fun, colourful characters. It’s never dry, but packs a surprising amount of information in.Model Amber Rose recently made the headlines for her revelations about her former partner Kanye West. Now she’s going head-to-head with his wife Kim Kardashian on the app stores with an emoji app. MuvaMoji includes hundreds to use in your messaging, including – a welcome step – a full section of LGBT-themed emoji.The latest app in the flurry of mindfulness startups trying to help us improve ourselves and/or get a bit less stressed. Which can be a bit wishy-washy, but Remente takes a practical approach, encouraging you to set daily goals from exercise and education to remembering to call your family.Missing out on last month’s roundup by a matter of hours, Clash Royale has been taking the Android world by storm. It’s a cross between the card-battling and tower defence genres, as you collect and upgrade your warrior cards, and take on players around the world in short, sharp battles.Billed as “Super Hexagon meets Geometry Wars”, that should give anyone who knows their mobile games a clue that this can be quite hard. That makes it a rewarding challenge for fans of minimalist shoot-‘em-ups though: this is twitch gaming at its finest on a mobile device.That moment when you’re waiting for one frenetic shoot ‘em up to come along, then two turn up at once. Operation Dracula is more traditional: a shooter from the “bullet hell” sub-genre (note for newcomers: also quite hard) with retro graphics, bullets all over the shop, and huge just-one-more-go appeal.What a time to be alive if you’re a fan of mobile remakes of South Korean survival-horror PC games from 2001! But hold that snark, because White Day was well worth reviving. It’s a genuinely-creepy adventure set in a locked-up high school, with the emphasis on frights rather than gory killings.Strange though it sounds, as Rayman has always been a popular console franchise, but the world has woken up to just how fun the platform series was. Rayman Classic is the perfect reminder: a mobile conversion of the 20 year-old side-scrolling adventure, which is as fun as ever.Key uses for smartphones in 2016: social networking, streaming music, raising armies to conquer the world while building a sprawling kingdom back home... Total War Battles: Kingdom looks a good addition to the military-strategy genre, with absorbing gameplay and the ability to play on your PC as well as mobile devices. “Collect cubelets and craft epic, monster-slaying weapons and gear,” explains the app store listing for Nexon’s RPG, which has just gone global. If that sounds like Minecraft... Well, there are some similarities, but this is more of a traditional action-RPG game at heart, with crafting adding a neat extra touch.Faily Brakes might sound like a four-wheeled Crossy Road rip-off, but thankfully it’s more interesting – and fun – than that. Viewed from behind your vehicle, the game sees you careering down a mountain dodging scenery, collecting coins, and marvelling at the slow-motion replays when you crash.Japanese developer Kairosoft has made some of the most addictive strategy games available for smartphones, with Skyforce Unite! adding some welcome new ideas to its pixelly formula. The game has you monster-hunting, with light elements of card-battling added to the basic gameplay of developing your team.Finally, another blast from the gaming past. Dungeon Monsters is a first-person dungeon crawler, which will give gamers of a certain age flashbacks to Dungeon Master, The Bard’s Tale and other genre classics. Not that this is entirely old-fashioned: its colourful graphics and fast-paced gameplay feel modern.That’s our pick of the new apps that the Google Play store had to offer this month, but what have you been enjoying? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the apps above, or your recommendations for new apps that we’ve missed.</content>
<class_name>Apps,Android,Google,Smartphones,Tablet computers,Mobile phones,Games,Doctor Who,Nintendo,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:34:52+0100</date>
<title>Top 20 Android apps and games of the month – from Doctor Who to Miitomo</title>
<content>Tenderly depicting the dawn of Easter morning, leading to a double-choir celebration of the triumph of the resurrection, this motet is a unique example in Lassus’s output of Venetian polychoral technique. A late composition of the Franco-Flemish composer, it sets the Hymn for  on Easter Sunday.Hearing Klopstock’s poem Die Auferstehung (The Resurrection) at the funeral of Hans von Bülow in 1894, Mahler was moved to incorporate the line “Rise again, yes, you shall rise again / My dust” as the opening to the final movement of his Second Symphony. This epic work was his first major piece to establish his view of the beauty of the resurrection and the afterlife. (“To the Paschal victim let Christians offer up their songs of praise”) is usually attributed to the 11th century Wipo of Burgundy. One of four medieval sequences that were preserved in the Missale Romanum published in 1570 after the Council of Trent, it is one of the few still in liturgical use today.Haec Dies: Music for Easter – my latest recording, features this sparky new setting of the Gradual for Mass on Easter Day, which I commissioned from Matthew Martin as a counterpart to William Byrd’s much-loved motet of the same name. Martin’s rhythmic, brassy fanfares for organ and voices alternate with passages of quieter, smoother contrapuntal texture, the work closing with hushed Alleluias and a vanishing organ part.The earlier of Bach’s two settings of the Easter story, the St John Passion is often seen as more compact and vivid than the later St Matthew. René Jacobs’s new, characteristically dramatic, recording of its 1749 version employs four soloists who, adding intensity, also sing with the chorus of 16 voices. Augmented by boy trebles for the chorales, this lineup makes for a thrilling performance of the baroque masterpiece.Vaughan Williams, greatly inspired by the metaphysical writer George Herbert, sets five of the clergyman’s poems in his Five Mystical Songs. Easter, the opening text, reflects the poet’s connection to music, using instruments as metaphors: “His stretched sinews taught all strings / What key is best to celebrate this most high day.” The music, largely Romantic in character, is both celebratory and intimate. exudes joy in its depiction of Mary Magdalene’s encounter with the risen Christ. Following a more sombre secunda pars, where Magdalene attempts to make sense of the empty tomb, Crecquillon then repeats the music from the first section, recapturing the exuberance of the Easter story.Now a pillar of the Anglican repertoire, Hadley’s anthem offers a rich, sensual musical landscape, aptly befitting this famous text from the Song of Solomon. Often performed during Eastertide, the words speak of new life and possibility: “The winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come.”Describing the good shepherd who gave his life for his sheep, this poetic text has inspired many composers over the centuries. The six-part setting by Jean L’Héritier, one of a generation of notable Renaissance composers after Josquin, is undoubtedly a 16th-century masterpiece.Though the Easter Suite is regarded by some as one of this jazz legend’s great works, it remains unknown to many still today. Commissioned by The South Bank Show and first broadcast live on Good Friday 1984, this instrumental work depicts events from the gospel story. The Peterson Trio is on top form, with Peterson in particular displaying wonderful musicianship in the last movement, He Has Risen.  conducts the Choir of Clare College, Cambridge on their latest release, Haec dies: Music for Easter on .</content>
<class_name>Classical music,Opera,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T14:34:23+0000</date>
<title>Music for Easter – 10 of the best</title>
<content>Yorkshire’s moors are spooky, scary places. For example, I gather it’s unwise to go up on Ilkley Moor  [honourable mention to actor Brian Blessed’s bizarre rapping over  here]. And the  (’s version starts our list) describes, in old Yorkshire dialect, , via purgatory, either in heaven or hell. Perhaps George “Northern Powerhouse” Osborne should ponder the following lines before making any more welfare cuts:We’re using  for this playlist. Saddleworth Moor was , and I imagine Yorkshire is glad to be rid of it. It’s where the Moors murder victims were buried – one of them is yet to be found. I’m so old that I well remember the atmosphere of dread and disbelief that pervaded our lives once the crimes were discovered. Recommender  calls ’ , which captures some of that, “a brave bit of songwriting”, and so it is.Let’s take a more pleasant journey now, following the valley of the river Swale with ’s . Down to the Humber it goes, where  and her family used to party with  in the waterfront pubs of Hull. Just like the rest of us, Yorkshire folk have happy relationships ( married one of the ) as well as ones that end sadly – , the “Barnsley Nightingale”, sings  with the Grimethorpe Colliery Band quintet, and will bring you to tears. There are other kinds of love affairs. ’s  was much-nominated this week while, as  know, you can take the man out of Huddersfield but you might find he doesn’t manage the transition to LA all that smoothly. Their Wasted Years B-side  takes its title from the band’s affectionate sendup nickname for their manager Rod Smallwood – a Huddersfield man through and through. Meanwhile, down in Sheffield, graffiti artist and hip-hop musician  is rapping enthusiastically about , and  are pondering the recent past. Here’s what Jarvis Cocker  about the writing of : After all that, you’re probably ready for a glass of something. Luckily,  (), as they have it in Yorkshire. And, now you’ve got that glass firmly in hand, why not join in with ’s rousing, joyous ? They go in for community projects – and the bigger the community (this was the official Yorkshire festival 2014 song), the better they like it. Just the same as Yorkshire itself, really.The theme for next week’s playlist will be announced at 8pm (UK time) on Thursday 31 March. You will have  to make your nominations.Next week’s playlist will be assembled by reader Sarah Chappell, who posts in the comments as . Here’s a reminder of some of the guidelines for RR: If you have a good theme idea, or if you’d like to volunteer to compile a playlist from readers’ suggestions, please email  or add it . There’s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are “zedded”, at the . It also tells you the meaning of “zedded”, “donds” and other . Many RR regulars also congregate at the .</content>
<class_name>The Smiths,Iron Maiden,Pulp,Jarvis Cocker,Pop and rock,Folk music,Brian Blessed,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:00:13+0100</date>
<title>Readers recommend playlist: songs about Yorkshire</title>
<content>While last year’s Cannes might have seemed , it was a standout compared to the later festivals of the year. Oscar contenders Carol and Son of Saul kicked off their campaigns while Sicario, Mad Max: Fury Road and The Lobster were some of the other notable premieres.Woody Allen’s Cafe Society has been confirmed to open this year’s festival, but what other films could be on the list? Before the full schedule is announced next month, here’s our roundup of likely inclusions.Jodie Foster’s last film as a director, the Mel Gibson puppet drama The Beaver, might have been an unusual misstep, but her latest – a starry thriller with , Julia Roberts and Jack O’Connell – promises to reinstate her as one of the leading female directors working within the studio system. It combines an old-fashioned premise (disgruntled psycho holds celebrity hostage) with a fresh spin (he’s a victim of the financial recession) and will likely play out of competition.Most of the press surrounding Sean Penn’s latest film as director has been linked to him directing his now ex-girlfriend Charlize Theron, but he’s now hoping the rather earnest-sounding drama (his first behind the camera since 2007’s Into the Wild) will bring him some credibility after his critical and commercial flop The Gunman. It stars Theron as the director of an aid agency in Africa and her relationship with a relief aid doctor, played by Javier Bardem. Issues!Having debuted four of his films at the festival already, including the jury prize-winning Mommy in 2014, it’s essentially guaranteed that 27-year-old director Xavier Dolan will unspool his latest in May. It’s his starriest to date, with Marion Cotillard, Gaspard Ulliel, Nathalie Baye, Léa Seydoux and Vincent Cassel, and tells the story of an awkward family reunion.Ever since Rosetta won the Palme d’Or in 1999, the Dardenne brothers have become a reliable mainstay of the festival, going on to pick up another four prizes. They’ll likely be heading there again this summer with this drama about a young doctor trying to find out the identity of a woman who died after refusing surgery.What was Spielberg doing gobblefunking around for so long before he did a Dahl? His take on Roald’s The BFG will mix live action with Mark Rylance, made big and giant by CGI. Apparently already confirmed at Cannes, Spielberg will likely take the pop slot: the berth reserved for the great (Mad Max: Fury Road) and the ugly (Pirates of the Caribbean, Spielberg’s own Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull) of candy-coated American cinema. Should be a whizzpopper. More memories of mummy from Pedro . Based on the short stories of Alice Munro, the director’s 20th film stars  as Julieta, looking back on her youth ( plays her in adolescence) and wondering where her relationship with her daughter went quite so wrong. Roll up for your regular dose of LeBeouf lunacy as King Disrupter anoints Andrea Arnold’s new drama about a hard-partying magazine sales crew, scouring the Midwest for subscriptions. Shia is joined in Arnold’s film (her first shot outside the UK) by Arielle Holmes, the star whose role in Heaven Knows What was based on her experiences as a homeless drug addict. With Woody Allen’s Cafe Society opening, it’s looking to be a major festival for Amazon, who picked up this intriguing new horror from . He’s previously debuted both Drive and Only God Forgives on the Croisette and his latest, about beauty-obsessed women in LA, is likely to follow.Olivier Assayas shows  around his latest drama. Stewart plays Maureen, an underling in the Paris fashion world who starts experiencing phenomena more spooky than ‘How does she eat so little and not pass out?’ Stewart won a César for her last collaboration with Assayas (Clouds of Sils Maria) so the partnership’s a good fit.Jeff Nichols swaps the supernatural for the super-natural as Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga star in the director’s lo-fi drama about a real life couple, Richard and Mildred Loving, who in 1958 were exiled from Virginia because of the state’s laws against interracial marriage. The couple took their case to the Supreme Court, which ruled in their favour, disarming similar legislation across America. Paul Verhoeven making a return to the thriller genre is luridly exciting in itself, but pairing with Isabelle Huppert, who plays a rape victim who stalks her attacker, makes his latest seem like a noteworthy distraction from some of the dustier alternatives on the Croisette. It’s been described as “extremely erotic and perverted”.Jim Jarmusch’s last film, the unconventional vampire tale Only Lovers Left Alive, hit Cannes in 2013, following a Grand Prix win in 2005 with Broken Flowers, and Ghost Dog, Dead Man and Mystery Train all premiering at the fest. It’s a safe bet that his latest, a low-key drama about a bus driver played by Adam Driver, will also make an appearance.Ben Wheatley takes another leap into the mainstream as he assembles a starry cast (recent Oscar winner Brie Larson, Armie Hammer, Sharlto Copley) for his latest, a crime thriller set on the mean streets of 1970s Boston. The cuddly grandpa of extreme violence and brutal masculinity – Martin Scorsese – exec produces. Cannes loves Loach. Something about his films, which tell working-class stories about pluck and courage that extol the virtues of state support, really chimes with the private festival that welcomes millionaire superstars and operates a strict hierarchy for press access. COUGH. Anyway, this one’s about a joiner who falls ill and needs the NHS to help him. Romanian film-maker Cristian Mungiu has been a favourite of the fest since his first feature film Occident appeared in the Directors’ Fortnight. He went on to win the Palme d’Or for the harrowing abortion drama 4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days and his follow-up Beyond the Hills won best screenplay and best actress, shared by its two leads. Hopes are high for his new film, about parenting in a small town.After a misfiring English-language debut (Stoker) and a train-based thriller (Snowpiercer) that zipped us by, Vengeance trilogy director Park Chan-Wook returns to home turf, albeit with foreign topsoil. His take on Sarah Waters’s Fingersmith is set in Korea in the 1930s, when the country was ruled by Japan. James Franco’s very weird, sporadically wonderful take on William Faulkner’s As I Lay Dying defied consensus on its debut at Cannes 2013. In the three years since, Franco has been involved in close to 20 projects. It’s a crap shoot as to whether Zeroville, in which he stars as a theology student wandering through 1960s Hollywood, is any good. If not, don’t worry too much: one Franco project falls, another five rise to take its place. Originally slated for a late December release, Oliver Stone’s Snowden biopic, starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt in the lead, was yanked from the schedule and pushed back nine months. It’s not a great sign, although Foxcatcher saw a similar date change and, after a Cannes debut, went on to be a major Oscar contender. A similar trajectory could occur here.Disney have often indulged in glitzy Cannes launches for their films, including last year’s Inside Out, and with a June release date for their Finding Nemo sequel, it’s possible this will also follow suit. It reunites the voice stars of the 2003 original, Albert Brooks and Ellen Degeneres, and intriguingly adds Diane Keaton and Idris Elba to the cast.Michael Shannon and Werner Herzog last tangoed in 2009. Here the pair hotstep it to south America (no-one’s said which bit yet) where a supervolcano is about to blow the world to bits. What’s going to save us? Love, of course. More specifically, the love between an idealistic scientist (Veronica Ferres) and the head of a villainous mega-corp (Shannon presumably). </content>
<class_name>Cannes 2016,Cannes film festival,Festivals,Jodie Foster,George Clooney,Kristen Stewart,Julia Roberts,Sean Penn,Nicolas Winding Refn,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T14:24:38+0100</date>
<title>Dead certs to dark horses: 20 films we think will be at Cannes in 2016</title>
<content>Ben Whishaw –  (BBC2)Idris Elba –  (BBC1)Mark Rylance –  (BBC2)Stephen Graham –  (Channel 4)Claire Foy –  (BBC2)Ruth Madeley –  (BBC3)Sheridan Smith –  (BBC1)Suranne Jones –  (BBC1)Anton Lesser –  (BBC2)Cyril Nri –  (Channel 4)Ian McKellen –  (BBC2)Tom Courtenay –  (ITV) Chanel Cresswell –  (Channel 4)Eleanor Worthington-Cox –  (Sky Living)Lesley Manville –  (BBC1)Michelle Gomez –  (BBC1)Graham Norton –  (BBC1)Leigh Francis –  (ITV2)Romesh Ranganathan –  (BBC3)Stephen Fry –  (BBC2)Michaela Coel –  (Channel 4)Miranda Hart –  (BBC1)Sian Gibson –  (BBC iPlayer)Sharon Horgan –  (Channel 4)Hugh Bonneville –  (BBC2)Javone Prince –  (BBC2)Peter Kay –  (BBC iPlayer)Toby Jones –  (BBC 4) (BBC1) (Channel 4)Don’t Take My Baby (BBC3) (BBC1) (BBC1) (Sky Living) (BBC2) (Channel 4) (Channel 4) (Sky Atlantic) (Channel 4) (BBC2) (ITV) (BBC1) (ITV)Holby City (BBC1) (More4) (Netflix) (BBC4) (Amazon Prime) (BBC2)Great Ormond Street (BBC2) (Channel 4)The Tribe (Channel 4) (BBC2) (Channel 4) (BBC1) (BBC2) (BBC iPlayer)Life After Suicide (BBC1) (BBC2)(Channel 4) (BBC2) (BBC1) (Channel 4) (Channel 4) (Channel 4) (Channel 4) (ITV) (Channel 4)Children of the Gaza War (BBC2) (Channel 4) (ITV) (BBC2)BBC News at Six: Paris Attacks Special (BBC1)Channel 4 News: Paris Massacre (Channel 4)ITV News at 10: Refugee Crisis (ITV)Sky News: From Turkey to Greece (Sky News)The Ashes (Sky Sports)The Grand National (Channel 4)MOTD Live: FA Cup Final (BBC1)Six Nations – Final Day (BBC1)Big Blue Live (BBC1) (ITV)Stargazing Live: Brit In Space, Tim Peake Special (BBC)The Vote (More4)Adele at the BBC (BBC1) (ITV) BBC1) (Channel 4)  (E4) (Channel 4) (BBC3) (BBC iPlayer) (BBC2) (BBC1) (BBC2) (BBC1)</content>
<class_name>Baftas 2016,Baftas,Awards and prizes,Television,Television industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T08:11:49+0100</date>
<title>Bafta TV awards 2016: full list of nominations</title>
<content>This track is big in the clubs in NYC at the moment. It’s got a strong, infectious hook and, as you say in the UK, it sounds ‘’ with a good but controlled aggression. I remember hearing this song for the first time and it made me make an angry face – it’s that kind of record; you feel pretty unstoppable listening to it.The Game has a great verse on this record, he really spits with this girl form New Jersey called Sonyae Elise. It’s a very soulful track for Anderson Paak, and it makes you want get in your car and just drive. If I could I would pick the whole Anderson Paak album, it’s all really great. The song is about a black and white BMW X6; the face of the car looks like a panda.  is an 18-year-old from Brooklyn and the record is so popular in clubs that Kanye remixed the song on The Life of Pablo. It’s going to be a huge record, its already big in a lot of places and it’s still building. This song makes me want to hit the gym and just pummel it.There are many tracks I like on . I love 30 Hours but Famous featuring  is on the next level. It’s got some very catchy lines and is one of those songs that just sound big and fun. It’s the kind of rap record that lets artists say whatever they want (“I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex”). It’s politically incorrect, but great to listen to.The thing about Untitled 7 is that it feels as though there are three songs within its eight minutes. At about three minutes in, the song, reportedly , completely changes. It feels like the first part of this song, with its bounce and drums, is going to be a big summer hit as DJs are playing it already. This song makes me feel happy and like I want to just have a good time. </content>
<class_name>Rap,Kanye West,Kendrick Lamar,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T13:41:22+0100</date>
<title>Ebro Darden of Beats 1's playlist: Anderson Paak, Kendrick Lamar and more</title>
<content>Illustrated books and graphic novels were my way in.Without them, I’d never have read a thing, never written a word.They took away the fear and opened my eyes to the adventures that were out there, waiting.Now I talk about reading in schools every week, and still occasionally meet head teachers who ban their students from reading anything illustrated during their library lessons, as it doesn’t constitute “proper reading”.It makes me want to scream, to see the door slammed in the faces of those who approach books reluctantly. Because from my experience, once that door is closed on you, it’s bloomin’ hard to push it open again.So here, based on my limited reading experiences, are 10 illustrated books that mean a lot to me.Ten illustrated books, that will blow the hinges clean off the door and let readers walk back in.The only way to begin a list of top illustrated books. This book is many kinds of excellent. The only book where a boy, squashed flat by his brother’s noticeboard, is folded inside an envelope with a sandwich and a carton of juice, and posted on holiday to America.The PERFECT marriage of words and pictures.I owe a great deal to the Caped Crusader, and I read this dozens of times as a teen. It sets itself up as your classic Batman v Joker smackdown, but in the middle, manages to kill off one of the most famous characters in the DC universe. Anything I learnt about loss and grief, I learnt from this book.Jeff Kinney motivated millions of young people around the world to read and that’s a magnificent thing. But for me, the overweight hero of The Donut Diaries, Dermot Mulligan, runs (jam) rings around Greg Heffley.There are three volumes in this ridiculous, hilarious series, each one brought to life by the scratchy pen of David Tazzyman. Look out for the evil Dr Morlock, who meticulously and fearlessly examines Dermot’s poos.One of the most imaginative and gripping fantasy series out there.Tony Diterlizzi is a genius. The detail in his illustrations blow me away every time I read them. The dastardly Mulgarath is a favourite. (See also his Wondla Trilogyfor older readers).What happens to imaginary friends once a child grows too old for them? This is the starting point for one of my favourite books. Packed full of heart, but also deeply disturbing and eccentric, it’s a wonderful collaboration. I’m not sure words and pictures have ever fitted together quite so seamlessly.When Tamsin, a young bodyboarder, is sucked under the sea by a massive wave, she manages to enrage the sea gods by accidentally stealing a magic staff. As close to the perfect graphic novel as you can get. I’d have killed for this aged 10. How you tell such an incredible story with so few words is beyond me.David Almond is a genius. I believe this has been verified by scientists (and readers) all over the world.He’s also an artist. When I read his novels it’s like they’ve been carved out of stone.One of my favourites is The Savage, his collaboration with McKean, whose unsettling and unapologetically scary illustrations make David’s words sing even louder. A short book, but packed with power.Darren Shan is the master of horror and it’s a genre that interested me as a teenager. Although brilliant, I struggled with the length of books by Stephen King and James Herbert. I wish Darren had been writing then, especially his Zom-B books, which is far more than just a genre series.The way he plays with gender and racism is incredibly skillful, and Warren Pleece’s’s illustrations give the book an added, graphic novel feel.It makes me feel a bit ill that there are people as talented as Dave, able to tell such brilliant stories through words AND pictures. I’m a sucker for a crime novel these days, and this comic book is the PERFECT introduction.Funny, silly, but with a plot to die for, this book has some of the greatest puns ever put on the page. Please do seek it out.Never has a book about misery, despair and unhappiness made a grown man jump for joy as much as this. What I loved about volume I, was the way it ignored every rule there was.AND it was visually delicious.Helquist’s illustrations truly looked like they’d been found in an aged secret journal. Never has a book about death been filled with more life.</content>
<class_name>Children and teenagers,Children's books: 8-12 years,Teen books,Picture books,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:30:16+0100</date>
<title>Top 10 illustrated children's novels that open the door for reluctant readers</title>
<content>Look through the camera’s viewfinder when you’re next preparing to take a photograph and ask yourself: what can I see? Then ask: what can’t I see? The difference might be telling.Photography’s singular perspective has always been its virtue and its Achilles heel. With the exception of stereo and panoptic formats, ordinary cameras cannot begin to replicate the broad, binocular nature of human vision. What lies beyond – or even behind – the camera’s field of view remains a mystery to all but those who were there.As such, the act of making photographs is essentially a matter of selection and composition, a game of inclusion and exclusion. But as a playful series from Slovakian photographers Zuzu Galova and Peter Sedlacik illustrates, the game can be turned on its head.Created over the past three years while Galova and Sedlacik have been travelling the world together, the images in  – the majority of which were shot in Australia – cannily exploit photography’s supposed limitations.For every shot taken of Galova by Sedlacik there is a reciprocal shot taken of Sedlacik by Galova, captured simultaneously. The resulting images are presented side-by-side, giving us two glimpses of every scene, each acting as a metaphorical mirror to the other. “The idea came when we went on our first holiday together to Portugal,” Galova explains. “We both had cameras and we ended up facing each other with them. At first we were just playing around but soon we found we had a few photos, and we started putting it together.” Sedlacik adds: “It’s always organic. We are not preparing [in advance] for the shoot, we’re always just doing it as we go. When I’m trying to match the photos together sometimes it doesn’t work – the colour, the tone, the composition and how smooth they are through the white line. But when we take the photos we don’t spend too long at the spot, we just say: ‘Did you have good focus? Did you take my photo? OK, let’s continue’.”Part travelogue, part portraiture, part documentary – or “a big mash-up” of their creative backgrounds, as Sedlacik suggests; whatever terminology we use to describe the concept, its unorthodox nature has proved liberating. The pair have so far made more than 150 diptychs and have amassed 50,000 followers across  and , where they regularly post their images. Last week a small selection of their work was shown in a shipping container at Sydney’s Bondi beach.“When we both took photos [independently] we ended up with similar photos,” Galdova says. “I’m not saying it’s boring to have only one [perspective], but ... using diptychs gives us more options and more creativity. “For example, we went to Uluru just before sunrise and you’ve got this beautiful view in front of you, but what people don’t see is that you’re squeezed in between all of the tourists ... So that diptych is showing the beauty but also the reality around us.”There are subtle stylistic differences between their images – Sedlacik characteristically prefers a slightly shallower depth of field using his Canon camera, and Galova sometimes opts for analogue over her Nikon kit to capture a more “poetic” feel. And while many of the early images in the series were shot with the pair standing metres apart, directly facing one another, they now increasingly feature a change of scale or vantage point, something which opens up the space around them and playfully nudges the axis of our attention. In that sense, their images recall .Probst’s work is manifestly more cunning and often features degrees of duplicity (what appears to be an alpine location in one frame, for example, is only revealed to be a cloth backdrop when seen in another frame from above). By contrast, it is clear that Galova and Sedlacik are merely revelling in the aesthetic possibilities – and the memories – their travels produce. Theirs is a simpler and more relatable purpose. “For us it’s always a diary, it’s what we feel as we go,” Galova says. “Behind every single photo there is a story. “Some of our friends say [they feel like] they are travelling with us. We made a group on Facebook, then we put it on Tumblr and  and it started to grow and people started to write to us. We really didn’t expect it. Then we found other couples have started to use the format and the hashtag #lensbetweenus [for their own photos].”As much as anything, these photographs examine the romantic relationship between Galova and Sedlacik, and their popularity on social media is perhaps born of the fact they seem to speak to something universal. Indeed, once you strip away the context and the intent, the attraction between between Galova and Sedlacik is compelling. They may be hidden behind cameras and divided at all times by a white rule, but there is a palpable bond. And, as they point out, they remain the object of one another’s gaze wherever in the world they may be.“With diptychs, we can be together even we are not standing next to each other.”</content>
<class_name>Photography,Social media,Instagram,Tumblr,Digital media,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T02:30:39+0100</date>
<title>Lens Between Us: couple look to each other to create unorthodox travel photographs</title>
<content>(Dublin, Glasgow, then touring)When you meet a solo artist, you generally also meet their team of co-writers, producers and collaborators, even if you’re never formally introduced. But Buckinghamshire’s Jack Garratt is a genuine one-man band in the vein of James Blake, though one using his powers for stirring pop rather than immersive melancholy. Neither a former featured vocalist nor Brit school graduate, Garratt’s path to success has been paved with endearingly crap milestones (he placed last in the race to be Britain’s Junior Eurovision entrant in 2005). Now, though, he has the weight of a Brits critics’ choice award and first place on the BBC Sound of 2016 list behind him. The city’s a jungle, or is the jungle a city? Disney’s latest gives us a society where prey and predator have put aside their natural urges and put on clothes, although a bunny is still judged on her “cuteness” when she tries to join the police. The conceit proves remarkably durable: on the surface you get a snappy, witty buddy-cop caper, but beneath this it’s a laudable primer in identity politics. (Monday, 9pm, ITV)A young woman is found murdered on a cobbled backstreet in postwar Paris and renowned detective Jules Maigret knows it to be the work of a serial killer who continues to elude him. Rowan Atkinson is beautifully still as he warms to the lead role in this tremendously stylish production, the first of two one-offs. The supporting cast are also superb as the pressure mounts to arrest someone – anyone – to calm the locals. It hits just the right tone of suspense and mystery and looks absolutely stunning. (London College Of Fashion, London, Wednesday & Thursday)Fashion’s discerning spotlight has most recently landed on men’s fashion and street style, an intoxicating melting pot of looks influenced by music, minimalism and social tribes. In the first of two talks accompanying Fashion Space Gallery’s Mad About The Boy exhibition – which explores the fashion industry’s preoccupation with male youth – east London designer Nasir Mazhar will be in conversation with journalist Charlie Porter (Wed), discussing the future of fashion and notions of masculinity. Continuing with the theme of pervasive youth culture, Mark Leckey and Jason Evans will deconstruct the impact of clubbing and music on male style with the exhibition’s curator Lou Stoppard (Thu). With its ghostly sampling of a recent pre-digital past, Leckey’s 1999 short Fiorucci Made Me Hardcore immerses the viewer in clubbing subcultures, meandering through genres from northern soul to acid house. This idea of youth frozen in time is echoed in Evans’s arresting street shots of dapper young 90s males, which are also showcased in the exhibition. (Brighton, Edinburgh)If you’re of a certain age, news that David Lynch and Mark Frost are making a new series of Twin Peaks will have brought the memories flooding back: cherry pie, logs, owls, backwards-talking dwarves, clearing your diary on Tuesday night because that was the one and only chance to catch it back in the pre-internet 1990s. If you’re of a different certain age, Twin Peaks is ancient folklore, filtered through 25 years of pop-culture rip-offs and homages. In either case, here’s the perfect way to prepare for the most eagerly anticipated return in TV history: a marathon binge-watch of all 30 episodes, back to back. The feature-length pilot episode (directed by Lynch) is a masterpiece in itself. By the time you come out the other end, you’ll be pining for more. Or unable to remember your own name. (Old Vic, London, Saturday to 14 May)After Jamie Lloyd’s tinkering with The Homecoming last year, one wonders whether Old Vic artistic director Matthew Warchus will be similarly tempted to put a new spin on Pinter. The Caretaker premiered in 1960 and was Pinter’s first major commercial success, featuring his trademark subtle battle for power and unsettling mixture of menace and humour. The last major London production, in 2000, starred Michael Gambon, Rupert Graves and Douglas Hodge, and now the trio comprises Timothy Spall, Daniel Mays (most recently seen on stage in The Red Lion and Mojo) and George MacKay, who starred in Ah, Wilderness! at the Young Vic last year, as well as the Warchus-directed 2014 film Pride. With the US experiencing something of an identity crisis, it is a timely moment to see Richard Forster’s new work, which draws on the history of Levittown. This suburban housing project in Pennsylvania, built in 1947, has so much of what one might associate with the great bits of the US: there was an admirable postwar efficiency to the production of the 15,000 identical houses, each of which took under 20 minutes to erect. Forster has long been interested in social experiments and architectural innovation. His drawings frequently hover between abstraction and realism, a wavering that perhaps mirrors the original utopian dreams of such schemes and the glumly prosaic reality that inevitably unfolds.  (Amazon Prime)Ahead of season two (premiering on BT’s AMC channel in early April), Amazon has nabbed the first run of this Walking Dead spin-off. Dealing with the early days of the zombie outbreak – which is in full force in the Walking Dead – it’s more languorous and atmospheric than its parent series, with a bigger emphasis on family drama. Which isn’t to say that it’s lacking in big set-pieces or gleefully gory moments – this is the undead we’re talking about, after all. Available from Sunday. (Top Secret  Club, London, Saturday & The Queen’s Head, London, Sunday)It surely won’t be long before we’re talking about the first major standup born in the new millennium. 1996 is about as close as we’ve got so far, in the shape of rising star Tom Lucy, who’s generating a remarkable amount of industry buzz for someone who’s only on the cusp of turning 20. Watch him live and you’ll quickly understand the excitement, because what Lucy lacks in experience he more than makes up for in joke-writing. There’s a wonderful elegance and economy to his best gags that performers much older than him would kill for, lines that you can imagine coming not from a callow teen, but from a performer like Jimmy Carr or Josh Widdicombe. In terms of subject matter, he’s got an exceptional Inbetweeners-esque way of nailing the insecurity and sexual cravings of adolescent life. Maybe that’s not so surprising, given that he’s still living it. (Electric Brixton, London, Saturday)Black Coffee was born Nkosinathi Innocent Maphumulo in a township near Durban 40 years ago. As well as dealing with the strictures of apartheid, he also had to learn to DJ one-handed after his left arm was badly hurt in a car accident amid celebrations in the wake of Nelson Mandela’s release from prison. Nevertheless, today he’s a true superstar in South Africa, playing live stadium sets accompanied by orchestras, building up his label Soulistic and getting nominated for an MTV Europe Music Award. He even set off a pan-continental dance craze for recent single We Dance Again. But where the arena-fillers of the west trade in immediacy and shallow thrills, Black Coffee has built his career on surprisingly cautious, conflicted and mournful tracks, structured around sustained minor chords and searching vocal lines. There’s also a nimble swing underneath it all, resulting in mainstream deep house without the crushing solipsism. He plays a five-hour set at his biggest London event yet. </content>
<class_name>Television,Theatre,Clubbing,Comedy
(Stage),Comedy
(Culture),Exhibitions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T14:16:41+0000</date>
<title>The 10 best things to do this week</title>
<content>ver the last weekend in February one of Google’s computer science departments, Research at , co-hosted Deep Dream: the art of neural networks, with the Gray Area Foundation, a San Francisco not-for-profit organisation that fosters collaborations between the arts and technology. The idea behind the show is that surely a technology company that has pushed boundaries in tech can offer fine artists an app or two? But can it?The show, held in a refurbished cinema in the city’s Mission district, displayed a series of manipulated, photographic works created using one of the tech firm’s artificial intelligence programs.In an opening address and an accompanying online essay, Blaise Agϋera y Arcas, a Google machine-intelligence developer, likened the artistic use of such programs to photography, or the employment of optical instruments by Renaissance artists – tools which may have had their detractors, yet are now an accepted part of art history.“Faced with a new technical development in art, it’s easier for us to quietly move the goalposts after a suitable period of outrage,” Arcas argued, “re-inscribing what it means for something to be called fine art, what counts as skill or creativity, what is natural and what is artifice, and what it means for us to be privileged as uniquely human.”To reposition those posts would be mistake, in Arcas’ view: “We believe machine intelligence is an innovation that will profoundly affect art.”One of the intelligent applications Arcas and co were touting was an image manipulation program also called Deep Dream. Developed at Google’s Zurich office in 2014 and released to the wider world last summer, Deep Dream uses artificial neural networks, a style of computing inspired by the brain and nervous systems, to learn to recognise shapes in pictures.The program arose out of a project looking into visual classification tasks. Engineers wanted to see what might happen if, rather than making software to pick out, say, faces or number plates in a photo, they created a program which accentuated and expressed things which weren’t really there.“If a cloud looks a little bit like a bird,” they explained, “the network will make it look more like a bird. This in turn will make the network recognise the bird even more strongly on the next pass and so forth, until a highly detailed bird appears, seemingly out of nowhere.”The resultant pictures, packed with animal’s faces, intricate towers and swirling, colourful motifs, were exciting and unusual. Tech-literate artists took note, and once the code was released, many produced their own Deep Dream images, a few of which went on display at the exhibition.Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, for the millions of artists still wedded to their easels and brushes, plenty of the works were not very good. A few pieces, such as the HR Giger-style rendering of a Google Maps image of GCHQ by the Turkish-born artist Memo Akten, are impressive and engaging Most, however, look like dorm-room mandalas, or the kind of digital psychedelia you might expect to find on the cover of a Terrence McKenna book.Yet, to focus just on the finished image, is, in the view of some Deep Dream artists, to miss the point. “Deep Dream was never about the aesthetics for me,” says Akten, a fine artist and PhD candidate at Goldsmiths University in London. Instead he was impressed by the way the machine learning manages to mimic and interact with human visual perception.“It might look like Deep Dream is generating say, sparrow’s faces in clouds, but what it is actually doing is generating patterned noise, which our brains try to find meaning in.” Akten. “It creates just enough of a sparrow’s head in a cloud, so that our brains find the rest. Visually, our minds and Deep Dream are doing exactly the same thing. It’s such a perfect mirror. I love that conceptual aspect.” Others in the art world concur. “What really distinguishes Deep Dream is the machine learning techniques used to generate the images, rather than the images themselves,” says Dylan Kerr, a New York-based writer and curator with a strong interest in computer generated art. “It’s one thing to make a piece that is more or less an instrumental demonstration of what a novel technology can do, but I’m especially interested in artworks that use those technologies to tell stories or otherwise make meanings that are worth sustained attention and discussion.” Kerr explains. “Viewers will have to decide for themselves where on that spectrum these Deep Dream images fall – the auction shows that the market is already in the process of deciding how they’re valued.”Indeed, the Deep Dream auction raised $97,600 for Gray Area Foundation, with Akten’s working achieving the highest sale price of $8,000 – respectable figures for a small gallery sale, yet microscopic in comparison to Google’s parent company,  which has a market capitalization of around $550bn. So why is the tech firm bothering with Deep Dream? Do some within Google genuinely harbour a desire to further the development of fine art? Undoubtedly. Is Deep Dream a very minor event within the cultural life of the world’s largest company? Absolutely. Could Deep Dream service another goal? Maybe.“It’s an amazing recruitment campaign, I think,” says Akten. “They want to engage with this community of artists hackers and developers, who don’t necessarily work at big companies, but have a lot of interesting ideas, and are producing interesting work. They can be at the centre of all this, and maybe recruit when the time comes.”Alphabet now has interests in everything from public transport to healthcare, space travel to gaming. Just what shape that recruitment may eventually take is an inchoate as one of Deep Dream’s sparrow heads, though the end results could well be much more impressive.</content>
<class_name>Art,Google,Alphabet,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T22:51:30+0100</date>
<title>Can Google’s Deep Dream become an art machine?</title>
<content>his is a photo of , seeing a picture of his former home for the first time in a century. He started to cry and then sing: “My home. My Armenia.” He touched the image as he sang, then kissed his hands, as if it might take him back.Movses last saw his home in 1915, when he was five. When soldiers entered his village, he escaped with his father holding his hand. “Half the road was covered with dead people,” he told me. This marked the beginning of what Armenians refer to as the “” – the genocide of the Armenian people in their homeland, now part of modern-day Turkey. During the first world war, the Ottoman empire initiated a policy of deportations, mass murder and rape to destroy the Armenian presence within its borders. By the war’s end, more than one million people had been killed. To date, 29 countries have officially recognised the killings as genocide, but the Ottomans’ heirs in the Turkish government don’t fully acknowledge it.In 2013, I travelled to Armenia to meet Movses and nine other survivors to ask them about those distant days. They were all frail and elderly. Three were willing to help me: Movses,  and . We established the exact coordinates of the villages they’d left behind. I then set out to find them. Movses, who is 105, gave me a map, and I followed it as closely as I could, finding everything he had described: the sea, the tree with the fruit he remembered eating, the goats he shepherded, even the rubble of what was once his church.Yepraksia, now 108, had escaped her village by crossing a river nearby. She watched as Armenians were killed and thrown into the water. It was “red, full of blood”, she told me. Mariam, 102, escaped to Syria with her mother and older brother, whom they dressed as a girl for safety. They hid in the grass when the soldiers came. They walked at night for three days and hid during the day. But once they got to Syria, she was separated from her family.I took a picture of what remained in each village, and last year I brought each one back for the survivors. They grabbed at them, as if by holding them close they could be transported back there.I am Armenian, but I was born in Moscow and raised in America. This is a part of my history, which I knew about but never fully embraced.My great-grandfather survived the genocide because his neighbours, who were Turkish, hid him. So this series was personal, a way of trying to understand that part of myself.I had asked each of the survivors what I could do for them. Movses asked me to find his church, which was now a ruin, and leave his portrait there. Yepraksia asked me to find her lost brother, even though all she had of him was a drawing. “He liked to put me on his shoulders and play with me at the orphanage,” she said. “I don’t remember much else about him except he has blue eyes, like mine.”Mariam asked me to go to her village and bring some soil. She wanted to be buried in it. When I did so, she opened the package and said: “You’ve brought the smell of my village to me.”Moscow, 1989Columbia University, New York and  “Making my own art.” “Never being satisfied with myself, or my work.” “Stay humble.”</content>
<class_name>Photography,Armenia,Armenian genocide,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:00:08+0100</date>
<title>Diana Markosian's best photograph: the 105-year-old Armenian who escaped genocide</title>
<content>, James Rebanks’s book about living and working on the Lakeland Fells, has won many admirers. It’s adapted and directed for the stage by Chris Monks at the  in Keswick. , written by Rachel Wagstaff and directed by Steve Marmion, is a new musical set in June 1944. It’s at the Wales Millennium Centre from tonight. , starring Jeremy Irons and Lesley Manville, is at Bristol Old Vic. at Camden People’s theatre is about the scientist George Price, who formulated an equation for the evolution of altruism. BAC’s , featuring work from young and emerging artists, begins tonight with 20 Stories High and Theatre Rites’ . The Wardrobe Ensemble’s  is at the Bike Shed in Exeter. Filter’s hugely enjoyable and totally irreverent take on  is at Clwyd Theatr Cymru in Mold. The Gate in London hosts the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama’s , featuring plays by Elinor Cook, Ali Taylor, Joe Ward Munrow and Daf James. Amanda Whittington’s lively and enjoyable  moves to the Stephen Joseph in Scarborough.Alistair McDowall had a big hit with Pomona. His latest, , is a sci-fi drama directed by Vicky Featherstone at the Royal Court. The RSC’s , featuring amateur actors playing Bottom and his fellow thesps, heads to the Citizens in Glasgow. Phil Willmott’s latest musical, , is at the Finborough. David Leddy’s dystopian drama  moves to the Traverse in Edinburgh.Their Hamlet wasn’t great but let’s hope Bristol’s normally excellent Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory finds form with . The high cost of living in a capitalist world is charted in the Ricochet Project’s circus two-hander  at Home in Manchester. Also at Home from tonight is Breach’s , which looks to the past to consider civil liberties and state oppression today. It’s fragile, messy, alive and alert. The lovely  by Ockham’s Razor is at the Lighthouse in Poole., curated by BAC, but taking place in venues all over London, begins with Target Theatre’s , about sweatshop workers, which is at Rich Mix, Light’s  is at the Little Angel and Mike Kenny’s  and Birdsnest’s  are at the Polka. Tonight there are two King Lears in preview: Michael Buffong directs Don Warrington at the  in Manchester, while at the  in Northampton, Michael Pennington is the ageing tyrant in Max Webster’s revival. Douglas Maxwell’s  takes place during a sponsored silence and its written specially for the excellent learning disabled company Lung Ha. It’s at the Tron in Glasgow from tonight. , starring Glenn Close, starts at the London Coliseum. , a participatory experience of live art for children and adults, starts at Tate Modern. Saturday sees the start of Eve Ensler’s three short plays about human trafficking, , at West Yorkshire Playhouse.  is inspired by the story known as the eastern Romeo and Juliet, and is at Watford Palace from Saturday night. Finally, this weekend is your last chance to catch the Quarantine quartet  at the Old Granada Studios in Manchester.</content>
<class_name>Theatre,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T07:00:18+0100</date>
<title>Plan your week’s theatre: top tickets</title>
<content>atman v Superman: Dawn of Justice has been the victim of some of the stinkingest reviews of a blockbuster in recent memory. They are enough to make a video of star Ben Affleck looking sad after being politely reminded about them . Don’t look now, Sad Ben! Here are some of the most damning write-ups from its opening weekend.“The director is Zack Snyder, who was responsible for 300, Watchmen, Man of Steel and other Chekhovian chamber pieces, and whom I suspect of having worked for NutriBullet before he joined the movie business. When in doubt, he simply slings another ingredient into the mix, be it an irradiated monster, an explosion on government premises or the sharp smack of masonry on skull.”“The substance of Snyder’s film is crude and unambiguous, lacking any ideological or emotional nuance. Hans Zimmer’s score is made of lead. Characters intone expository dialogue in a manner that suggests they are heavily constipated.”“A stink bucket of disappointment, a sad and unnecessary PG-13 orphan fight that director Zack Snyder believes is an homage to DC Comics’ most iconic heroes, but is more along the lines of a home invasion perpetrated on comic book culture.”“No major blockbuster in years has been this incoherently structured, this seemingly uninterested in telling a story with clarity and purpose. It grumbles along for what feels like for ever, jinking from subplot to subplot, until two shatteringly expensive-looking fights happen back to back, and the whole thing crunches to a halt.”“Humankind deserves a better blockbuster.”“A storytelling disgrace. It has maybe six opening scenes and jumps so incessantly from subplot to subplot that a script doctor would diagnose a peculiarly modern infection: ‘disjunctivitis’.”“The Incredibles without the fun.”“This superhero-smörgåsbord melts into an electric soup of CGI. Effects are so overused that any conviction explodes in a giant fireball – indeed, endless fireballs.”“It is about as diverting as having a porcelain sink broken over your head … not so much a ‘dawn’ as an entire morning spent watching the clock in anticipation of lunchtime.”“It should really be called Batman and Superman v the Audience.”“Yo, this movie makes no sense.”</content>
<class_name>Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice,Action and adventure,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T15:51:57+0100</date>
<title>‘A stink bucket of disappointment’ – the most savage Batman v Superman reviews</title>
<content> used to be harder. That’s the lament veteran players now mutter whenever encountering some modern shoot-’em-up or action adventure. It sounds like the same sort of nostalgic elitism that music snobs indulge in, criticising current bands for lacking the legendary quality of yesterday’s heroes. But with games, it’s kind of true.As the industry has grown, the big titles have moved towards toning down the difficulty, in order to give a smooth experience to as wide a range of players as possible. Nowadays, if you want a real challenge, you have to select “hard” mode, which usually just means more enemies and less ammo. But difficulty is at its best when it’s an intrinsic part of the design: players have to think about the game in another way – and earn their progress. That is certainly true for the titles in this list. They’re not all classics, but even the plainly unfair ones have unforgettable qualities that made us persevere. That’s the thing with difficulty: it only really hurts when you want to see what’s next.When Fromsoft’s Hidetaka Miyazaki set out to rethink the action RPG genre, one of the new foundations was serious challenge. His thinking was: how can a player feel accomplishment without overcoming real odds? In these games, even the most basic enemies murder players again and again, so that the screen message “YOU DIED” is imprinted on the brain. The only consolation is that death is a staple part of how these worlds work. In other games, dying is failure, but here dying is how you learn, how you get better. In Souls, death is just part of the journey.Capcom’s side-scrolling platformer used the ever-present threat of death to create a uniquely intense adventure. One hit reduces protagonist knight Arthur to his heart-patterned boxers, and the second kills. Unpredictable enemies spawn everywhere, power-ups can be traps, and most players never see past the first stage. Those that reach the end find out that they’ve either failed to bring the holy cross, which means replaying the last two levels, or that in bringing it they’ve fallen for “a trap devised by Satan”, and have to do the whole thing over again. On an even higher difficulty setting. Capcom, you rascal. Challenge was always part of the Ninja Gaiden series, but  hit a new peak of demanding insanity. These enemies rough-house the player on even “normal” difficulty but, once the setting is at Master Ninja, they attack relentlessly with brutal health-chewing grabs and projectiles. In later levels, foes have cannons for arms that are fire with unerring precision and regularity. It’s impossible to survive at times, nevermind kill anything. Naturally, the internet means someone has done the whole thing in four hours without being hit once.God Hand’s commercial failure means many of the best ideas are yet to be stolen, one being the on-screen difficulty meter that responds to a player’s skill. There are four gradations, from level one to level DIE (the highest level), and if you’re getting smacked around it stays low. Once you get good at this (already tough) game however, it amps up how enemies attack, where they’ll attack from, how much damage they do, and increases the rewards for defeating them. Few games make the demands that God Hand does, and none tie difficulty and performance together with such elegance.This is where the XCOM series began, a deep strategy game with an unforgiving attitude towards lax play. The designer, Julian Gollop, had made many great turn-based titles in 2D but XCOM’s isometric perspective and implementation of fog-of-war added a terrifying strategic dimension – so many soldiers lost to a dark corner you never checked. The aliens exploit mistakes, cut down your soldiers ruthlessly, and back at base force you into hard choices in the desperate scramble to keep humanity safe. If this is anything to go by, we’re screwed.Flashback’s sequel was an early attempt to bring a successful 2D design into 3D – and underestimated just how important precision controls are. Though a forward-thinking third-person design in some respects, Fade to Black was undone by many enemies that could kill in a single hit – one terrifying example being a tiny hard-to-target blob that flips towards the player character before dissolving all their flesh on contact. The lavish cutscenes created by the developer for each possible death make you wonder whether the tail was wagging the dog.Perhaps Eugene Jarvis is better represented by Robotron 2084, an impossible challenge and a much better game, but that low-fi sci-fi shooter lacks NARC’s crude impact. A two-player arcade game starring Max Force and Hit Man, out to take down Mr Big, NARC was one of the first games to truly glory in gibs and ultraviolence – the various junkies, punks and thugs explode into gory gobbets as the guns of justice blaze. Jarvis’s games are always difficult but, with NARC,they reached a whole new level of cruel theatre.Smash T.V. is an arcade classic and exemplifies a school of design that’s now largely dead: to make people desperate to see the next screen. The setup is perfect, a future gameshow where contestants move through rooms filled with death-dealing nasties and gain more prizes the longer they stay alive. Even the first room won’t hesitate to kill unwary players and, from then on, the gloves come off as Jarvis (again) and co-designer Mark Turmell squeeze as much colour, shrapnel, and explosive ordnance on-screen as possible. “Total carnage,” shouts the announcer. “IIIIIII love it!”There could be any number of arcade beat-em-ups in this spot – TMNT, X-Men, even Final Fight – but in terms of efficiently guzzling coins through gorgeous presentation and artificial difficulty, it’s hard to top The Simpsons arcade game. The visuals, animations, enemies and scenarios are exceptional and clearly a labour of love (unlike the script) but the game beneath them is a brutal slugfest that especially enjoys stunlocking players – where one hit leads to many more.Originally planned as an 8bit version of his TV show Takeshi’s Castle, Japanese actor and director Takeshi Kitano instead got hands-on with Takeshi no Chōsenjō and created a game unlike any other – one whose packaging warned that “conventional gaming skills do not apply”. Loosely following a salaryman who dreams of finding treasure, Takeshi’s Challenge serves up a Game Over for innocuous “mistakes” like not quitting the character’s job, failing to divorce his wife, or not hitting the right people. You can get a Game Over on the password screen. Another challenge requires you leave the controller untouched for an hour. All games are arbitrary: only Takeshi’s Challenge glorifies in the fact.So original it spawned a genre, Rogue is a procedurally generated dungeon crawler where the difficulty – in the sense of what it chooses to throw at you – is a huge part of the appeal. Not only will each fresh adventure bring new environmental challenges and fights, but potions and weapons are random too – meaning just taking a glug is dicing with death. Players have to be adaptive rather than memorising specific challenges, and eking out a long adventure when the odds are stacked against you becomes part of the fun.The motto of this game’s community says it all: “losing is fun!” Dwarf Fortress is a game that has inspired whole  on the travails of players’ ill-fated settlements, most of which start off meagre and then quickly fall prey to the thousands of things that can go wrong. Wolves, cave-ins, famine, cabin-fever, flooding, burrowing down to a demon god … Failure is inevitable, and not only do your dwarves go mad in adversity – they often create works of art to reflect what’s happened. There are plenty of tough games, but generating psychological scars for fictional characters suggests Dwarf Fortress is something special.Doomed to curio status by a modest Japan-only release, The Adventure of Little Ralph plays like it was forged in the fires of arcade game design, but it is in fact exclusive to the original  and PSN. Scoring focused, hard as hell and shrouded in cult mystique, the traditional platformer today courts three-figure sums on the collector market, further denying it the broad audience it deserves. It’s “saving the damsel in distress” narrative may be hackneyed, but fiercely demanding boss fights that reinvent TAoLR as a beat-‘em-up serve to make it mechanically distinct, and cement its reputation as one of the most testing platformers yet developed.Difficulty in games is often a matter of testing the player’s ability to control with precision and react at speed. Coktel Vision’s narratively dark adventure game, however, is instead a test of semiotic nous. Its post-apocalyptic tale is told with an abundance of made up words, many of which pass without definition, while its knack for conversation without context make it thoroughly confusing. Even Clockwork Orange had a glossary. And if you’re tempted to use trial and error to crack its puzzles, be warned that the sheer number of inventory items and illogical quirks make it a protracted, painstaking process. If any game genre is most synonymous with difficulty, it is the arcade 2D shoot-‘em-up, known today as the shmup. And it is developer Cave that pushes devotees of the form like no other. Which Cave game is the hardest is highly subjective, but in terms of undiluted difficulty, the insect-themed Mushihimesama’s infamous Ultra mode might take it. There’s less of the mechanical intricacy that makes other releases by the studio perhaps as demanding, but through the sheer number of bullets that fill the screen, Mushi Ultra delivers an onslaught that is as bewildering to watch as it is demeaning to play.Any arcade music game has the capacity for towering difficulty. Take on some high-BPM electronica on a demanding difficulty setting, and whether you’re pounding your feet on a Dance Dance Revolution machine or standing over the decks of an oddity like EZ2DJ, the challenge will be immense. Few compare, however, to the standard set by the Single modes of In The Groove, the debut of a short-lived series from Austin-based studio Roxor. Some of the tracks, when played on the game’s X setting, seem to want movement from the player’s body that is in no way catered for by human evolution.If there’s a single moment that defines the experience of playing Super Meat Boy, it is quickly prodding the quick restart button. The platformer’s undersized stages brim with hazards, yet encourage you to play at furious speed. As a result, it’s a game of failing over and over again. However, by allowing for split-second restarts, there’s almost no drop in momentum as you ride the loop of trying and dying. As such, Super Meat Boy works its players into a frenzied trance state from which it can take hours to recover.For a good while, this side-scrolling motorcycling game feels like a meditative experience – and then the difficulty curve suddenly shoots straight for the heavens. It is then that the game reveals its true form; a nightmarish physics puzzler dressed as a driving game. Just how do you get over that vertical wall? How many degrees of rotation are needed to land on that upside-down ramp? The answer is intimacy with every nuance of a bike’s suspension and weight; an intimacy a handful of players globally are reported to have mastered enough to have aced the game’s closing stages.At a glance, Battle Garegga appears to sport a difficulty comparable to your usual 2D shooter: intensely tough, but nothing absurdly so. However, it is the way the game makes you play that pushes it into the “hardest ever” field. Battle Garegga has remarkably complex rank, that is, difficulty, that adapts to the way you play. Managing rank to keep the game playable means avoiding some power ups and bonuses, and even “suiciding”, where lives are lost on purpose. Playing properly means playing on the edge, life stocks low and weapon power reserved, and it’s acutely exciting. The current world-record holder Kamui has held and bettered her leaderboard position through an estimated 18 years of devoted play, demonstrating the commitment Garegga demands.Core’s homage to Indiana Jones is a platformer played a few pixels at a time, edging forward to see what will kill you next. There are spikes, pits and boulders at every turn, and learning by failing is almost the only way to proceed. Your inventory is severely limited too, and there’s some tremendously demanding precision needed in a handful of particularly cruel and frustrating sections. Years later, Core would go on to craft another tomb raiding game, by which time the studio had apparently learned how to treat its fans a little more fairly.Mention the first Shadow of the Beast to the right crowd, and you’ll likely hear nostalgic musings on how its pioneering use of the parallax scrolling technique pushed game visuals into a new era. Ask about it’s sequel, and the response may be a little less rosy. The melee-focussed, multi-directional platform game would have been straight up demanding if it gave you any guidance. But it doesn’t, leaving you to work out everything for yourself. In a time before Youtube and walkthroughs, that alone was enough to make Shadow of the Beast II one of the toughest of its day.Listing a familiar lightgun game might seem out of place on a list like this. After all, anybody who’s visited a dilapidated seaside arcade has likely thrown a handful of coins into the slot of Namco’s cop blaster, and felt nothing but delight. But try and complete the first Time Crisis properly – clearing it in a single credit – and it’s difficulty begins to become manifest. The lack of a hit indicator leaves a gaping hole in your ability to respond appropriately, and some punishingly curt timed sections serve to make it particularly easy to fast track to the game over screen.Those who played this freeware platforming treasure that never officially left beta will likely find it hard to forget. Boiling its genre down to its founding elements, I Wanna Be The Guy was developed as a response to a then unfinished, brutally demanding Japanese flash game named Jinsei Owata. O’Reilly was convinced he could push Jinsei Owata’s difficulty a little further, and it appears he succeed. As a result, his game has become a reference point for the most testing indie titles. Super Meat Boy featured IWBTG’s protagonist, The Kid, who also starred as the final boss of the conclusive build of Jinsei Owata.The greatest sin of this straight-to-console beat-‘em-up was that it tried to do things differently. It approached the control conventions of arcade fighters from the left field, using a range of weird button combos and d-pad swipes, but the result was a complex system too demanding for most ordinary players and utterly counterintuitive to committed beat-‘em-up competitors. The computer-controlled characters were also rather too good at their own game, and Weaponlord was ultimately consigned to its fate as a curio most renowned for being the first fighter designed with online play in mind. If you are tempted, the MegaDrive port is a little more forgiving than its SNES cousin.While Nidhogg is Messhoff’s most famous game, Flywrench must be its hardest. The set-up is deceptively simple; guide an abstract spaceship through minimal mazes that look altogether innocent, changing colour as you pass. The reality is very different, where constantly dying and restarting is the standard. Flywrench is perhaps the most difficult game of the past year, or the past nine years, if you were one of the few who played the 2007 original, which saw an understated online release and inspired Braid creator Jonathan Blow to craft a playfully easy version named Nicewrench.</content>
<class_name>Games,Game culture,Retro games,Arcade games,PC,PlayStation,Xbox,Nintendo,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-18T09:33:23+0000</date>
<title>The 25 hardest video games of all time</title>
<content>s everyone knows, Thomas the Tank Engine is the story of several straight white men who solemnly obey the every passing whim of a white, straight, male dictator in a crude reinforcement of the belief that the working class should know its place. It is outmoded and outdated, and it teaches children nothing but dangerous stereotypes about the world.Thankfully Mattel, the company that now owns Thomas, has decided to do something about this. A forthcoming straight-to-DVD movie, , promises to introduce a host of new friends who will forcefully inject a little more diversity into the Cumbrian island of Sodor. Many of the new characters will come from emerging global markets such as China and Brazil. Four of them are even female. Together, they will travel to Sodor to take part in an Olympic-style test of international ability.This is a noble endeavour on Mattel’s part. However, the move is still bound to cause offence somewhere, so let’s do everyone a favour and try to pre-empt all the angry thinkpieces now.So far, Thomas’s new friends include:Vinnie has a “tough demeanour and competitive drive that often gets the better of him”.Thinkpiece: “Why Vinnie the Engine has no place in Trudeau’s liberal Canada.”Yong Bao is based on a Chinese Railways RM class 4-6-2 Pacific, built between 1958 and 1966.Thinkpiece: “Baby boomers ruined everything, and now they’re ruining Thomas.”“With her sleek blue paint, she is often mistaken for Gordon.”Thinkpiece: “Gender identity should not be a locomotive punchline.”Raul is based on a train manufactured by Sentinel in 1931, built for a 5ft 3in gauge. However, to fit on Sodor’s lines, Raul has been adapted to standard gauge.Thinkpiece: “Why must immigrants painfully subsume their identity to appease their hosts?”No details yet exist for Ivan.Thinkpiece: “Another Putin stooge infiltrates your childhood.”Similarly, Mattel hasn’t released any details about Axel.Thinkpiece: Either “I am Flemish and Walloon Axel doesn’t speak for me,” or “I am a Walloon and Flemish Axel doesn’t speak for me.”Ashima’s “outer beauty resonates on the inside as well.”Thinkpiece: “Why must I expose my children to all these sexy trains?”Carlos literally has a monobrow.Thinkpiece: “Does Donald Trump design toys now?”</content>
<class_name>Children's TV,Family,Children and teenagers,Fiction,Toys,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T12:50:58+0100</date>
<title>‘Why must I expose my kids to all these sexy trains?’ How the world will react to the new Thomas the Tank Engine</title>
<content>t’s the most anticipated returning drama of the year, shrouded in secrecy and filmed under the sort of spoiler lockdown that would make Star Wars proud. So what do we know about series six of ? Here are seven things we’ve managed to find out.When we last saw the Red Priestess, her bids to bring Stannis victory had failed and she was riding as fast as she could to the sanctuary of The Wall. There she’ll be reunited with the late pretender’s other loyal servant, Davos, who crucially doesn’t know that Melisandre suggested the immolation of Stannis’s daughter Princess Shireen. “For both of them, their entire reason for living has gone,” says Liam Cunningham, who plays Davos. “All Davos knows is that Shireen and Stannis have gone. He has no idea Melisandre had anything to do with it. So, in the whole season, we’re waiting to see if he will find out – and if so, what will he do about it? The audience has more knowledge than he does. That weight of expectation is fantastic.”In season five, Tommen’s wife, Margaery, had been imprisoned for lying about her virtue, while his mother, Cersei, had been paraded naked through King’s Landing. Can the young king save the day? “He’s got a lot to do,” admits Dean-Charles Chapman, who plays Tommen. “He’s got to look himself in the mirror, slap himself in the face and man up. Whether he actually does that is another question …”The last time we saw the second youngest Stark he was settling in under a tree to learn the truth about, well, everything really. Now, after a series out, he’s back. “Bran is definitely the vehicle to look at the past and things that might be of significance to Westeros today,” says Isaac Hempstead-Wright, who plays the seer-in-training. As to how he’s doing that – well, Max von Sydow is involved. “I have to confess I didn’t know who he was at first,” admits Hempstead-Wright. “Then I drove home with Peter Dinklage [who plays Tyrion Lannister] and he was like: ‘Oh my God, Max von Sydow! I’ve arranged a meeting with him.’ I didn’t understand. But I do now.”“This season we see Arya get a series of tasks from Jaqen, which she has to carry out blind,” says Maisie Williams of her assassin-in-training. “She struggles a lot and finds the challenges very unfair, but ultimately she learns a lot of skills she’ll take with her in a very big way.” Ooh, tell us more. “Sorry, I can’t.”When we last saw Samwell Tarly, one of the few genuinely nice people on this show, he was heading off to learn how to be a Maester with the love of his life, Gilly, and her baby in tow. Does this mean a character, just one, might finally get a happy ending? “You definitely find them in a positive place at the start,” says John Bradley, who plays Sam. So, it all goes wrong? “Well, they stumble across an obstacle very early and we don’t quite know whether Sam knew about it and is only now telling Gilly, or whether it didn’t occur to him. But jeopardy kicks in within seconds of them starting their journey basically.”They might be the undisputed kings in the North, but now that Sansa Stark has escaped with Theon Greyjoy, will we see a challenge to the Bolton hegemony? “The biggest issue for the Boltons is keeping their power,” says Iwan Rheon, who plays the creepy Ramsay Bolton. “It’s definitely a problem that Sansa has escaped. With an heir from that marriage they would have been very strong in the North – because nobody likes the Boltons, but everybody loves the Starks. Losing her means Ramsay’s position is majorly weakened.”“There’s so much pressure on my character to perform miracles – why does everyone presume I can bring him back to life?” Carice van Houten (Melisandre).“What sort of show would you see this particular character getting 10 knives in his back and then going: ‘Oh he’s not dead?’” Liam Cunningham (Davos).“We never chatted about Arya and Jon meeting when he was on the show – it would have been lovely if they had. I imagine she’d probably just say: ‘I stuck them with the pointy end,’ and then they’d laugh. But I guess we’ll never know.” Maisie Williams (Arya).“I haven’t spent time with him on the set ... because he’s not on the set any more.” John Bradley (Sam).</content>
<class_name>Game of Thrones,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T12:19:21+0100</date>
<title>Jon Snow to Arya the assassin – everything we know about the new Game of Thrones</title>
<content>While Dwayne “I saved the world from an earthquake so please stop referring to me as the Rock” Johnson has been teasing his role in the utterly necessary Baywatch movie on social media for a while now, this week saw the first official image stride across the sand and on to the web.To be more specific, it washed up on Johnson’s Facebook page, liked by 55 million people. By way of perspective, that’s almost double the entire population of Peru, which could make for a terrifying dystopian future if they were to mobilise and organise a coup.The picture was accompanied with trademark enthusiasm from Johnson, an actor who is impossible to dislike and the only genuine reason to assume the new Baywatch might not be horrendous. “Are we bad ass? Yes. Do we save lives? All day. Are we a dysfunctional family? Epically. Do we have fun? F*CK YES.”But are we having fun yet? ARE WE? And more importantly, do Johnson’s fans even know what Baywatch is? According to many of the comments, the answer appears to be “not even!”, while others, who are clearly more familiar with the show, are just annoyed about the lack of boobs. We’ve been promised an “edgy, raunchy and hopefully, funny as all hell” take on the original with a 21 Jump Street-style redo on the cards. It boasts five writers (!) including one who wrote The Pacifier (!!) and two who were behind Freddy vs Jason (!!!). But what can we glean from the first image? Does it live up to this promise? Are we on the edge, furiously aroused while laughing maniacally? Almost!But first, there’s an awful lot of clothing on display for a Baywatch scene. If you then glance upwards from all those damn long sleeves, you can see a sky that’s somewhat washed out, suggesting dodgy weather and perhaps a restrictive budget that’s prohibited shooting at sunnier, more expensive times of the year. Plus Ilfenesh Hadera, second from right, looks genuinely cold and/or pissed off. I predict dramas such as “team must find jumpers that won’t get ruined by excessive exposure to salt water” and “snowman comes alive and affects beach attendance”.Second, despite the obnoxiously casual nature of the shot, there’s some devious Photoshoppery already at play. Not that I was initially drawn to Kelly Rohrbach’s crotch, but the poor actor, taking on Pamela Anderson’s role of “blonde woman with ability to run”, appears to have come up (against) a cropper. Go on, look. Along with Zac Efron’s weak, gravy-coloured fake-tan legs, it’s almost as if this isn’t as natural as it appears. It doesn’t help that they all look like they fell out on day one of the shoot and had to be shot on separate green screens, after copious piña coladas to get them in the mood.Also, I hate to make visual assumptions, but since this is the entire point of this piece, I’m guessing Jon Bass, AKA the guy who isn’t the Rock or , will be the provider of lols. He’s probably going to be less competent at the job, insidiously bullied by others off-camera and will never be taken seriously because he doesn’t go to the gym. But as it’s Hollywood and Kevin James has managed to romance Rosario Dawson and Salma Hayek, he’ll do just fine with the ladies. His female equivalent will be relegated to playing “ice cream-eating woman who isn’t allowed on the beach and ultimately dies at home off-camera and then is eaten by cats”.I’m also intrigued by Johnson’s assertion that this will be an “epically” dysfunctional family. I’m thinking somewhere between American Beauty and that dinner scene at the end of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. But on the beach!Well, be patient because we’ll have to wait until May 2017 to find out just how much sun cream, slow-mo and drowning children can be packed into one film. Probably a lot, even more and some, but they get saved by people who look like dolls that came to life.</content>
<class_name>Dwayne Johnson (The Rock),Zac Efron,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:55:00+0100</date>
<title>I'll be barely-there: what the first official Baywatch still tells us about the movie</title>
<content>The ninth annual Record Store Day will be held on Saturday 16 April, a day where independent music retailers and recording artists are celebrated. In previous years you have shared your  experiences with us and, if you are taking part again this year, we’d like to see your photos and hear about your vinyl and CD bargains. What rare releases are you interested in getting your hands on this year?We’d also like to hear about your previous Record Store Day experiences. Is there a particular record you discovered or a live event that you were lucky enough to witness? What is your local record shop like and what activities are planned for this year? Whether you are looking ahead to this year’s event or have fond memories of past Record Store Days, share your photos and stories with us. We’ll feature some of them on the site. You can share your Record Store Days pictures and experiences by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article. </content>
<class_name>Record Store Day,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:21:18+0100</date>
<title>Record Store Day 2016: share your photos and experiences</title>
<content>hese days, you don’t need a television to watch HBO; Netflix launches both original television series and movies, and even YouTube is starting to pay its biggest stars to make documentaries about – what else – being  stars. The line between what is a television show and what is a web series is getting less and less clear.“The difference between being a web series and being television is that on TV you have a marketing team,” says Adam Goldman, the creator, writer and star of , a cult hit web series that returns for a second season on 30 March, on Vimeo.While The Outs isn’t going to get ad buys on major networks or images of the cast plastered on buses and subway stops all over Manhattan, Vimeo is hyping the show as part of its . Goldman created the program, about a gay guy, Mitchell (Goldman), his best friend Oona (Sasha Winters), and their intertwined and simultaneous breakups with their significant others. It’s part of the cohort of series about twentysomethings living in Brooklyn, along with Girls and Broad City.“I think the shows share a milieu, but that’s probably where it ends,” Goldman says of the inevitable comparisons to . “[Girls] is more like Curb Your Enthusiasm, where the heart of the show is a little cringey and heightened. That makes it fundamentally something that The Outs isn’t striving to be.”What The Outs always has been and continues to be in its second season, is grounded, real and human. Though there are some wacky happenings here and there, it is mostly about young people and their friendships, insecurities, dead-end jobs, and striving to make sense of it all while still making the rent.The second season of The Outs picks up about three years after the last one wrapped (and since the last episode premiered in 2012, it’s about the same amount of time the show has been gone). Mitchell is in a committed relationship with a cute chef and working at a dating website, Oona is a social media star with a book out, and Jack (Hunter Canning), Mitchell’s ex, is trying to make a long-distance relationship work with his boyfriend Paul (Tommy Heleringer), better known to fans of season one as “Scruffy”.Not much has changed since the original six episodes (and a Hanukah special). “I think this is more like a sequel to a movie than another season of a TV show, because I don’t think either of these are the definitive stories of these people’s lives – I think it’s just two separate times in their lives,” Goldman says.However, the production was much different the second time around. While the first season was financed mostly through Kickstarter and other means, Vimeo footed the bill for season two, upping the budget considerably (though Goldman wouldn’t say by how much). It also changed the way the show was filmed.“The first season we took almost a year to make, and this one we shot in six weeks and it was all out of order,” says Hunter Canning, who plays Jack. “So last season you could see the episode and realize what Adam was trying to do. Then you could adjust. We shot so quickly there was no time to dabble.”Vimeo takes a different approach to releasing its content, selling its series on a pay-per-view model so that viewers only have to pony up for what they want to see rather than pay for an entire subscription. The six episodes of season two will be available at a rate of one a week. “I feel like if you’re going to [present a show all at once], you should write it that way, and these weren’t written that way,” Goldman says. “I realize that for the life of the show, people will be bingeing them, because once it all comes out, it’s just out there. But I think there’s something about letting it stew a bit and watching them as they drop.”But the biggest effect of Vimeo’s intervention is that expectations are higher the second go-round. “There is so much more pressure with this season because you know the audience is going to be greater,” says Sasha Winters. “It’s kind of a tricky thing because you want to be consistent with the way you did it the first time, but you want to be able to go further.”High Maintenance, the first show Vimeo funded, adds to those high expectations. It has since been picked up by  and is being turned into a cable series. “We’re not angling to get picked up by anyone else,” Goldman says. “This is the right scale for the show. There are times when we were looking to get the show on to a cable network and it felt like we’d have to blow it out in a way that wouldn’t be honest to the show and add a lot of characters and story that wasn’t really the show. This is not that story.”No, The Outs is a story that is so small, specific and excruciatingly accurate that it pegs both the humor and profundity of relationships. Marketing budget be damned, this is real fine television.</content>
<class_name>US television,Television,YouTube,HBO,Girls,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:25:26+0100</date>
<title>The Outs: the best TV show not on TV explores the lives of gay Brooklynites</title>
<content>ne of this year’s Bafta nominees could become the broadcasting equivalent of a triple Olympic gold medallist.  wrote Don’t Take My Baby, which is up for single drama, This is England ‘90, competing for mini-series, and The Last Panthers, nominated for drama series. As each show was produced by a different network, the 38-year-old Thorne will face a dilemma over which colleagues to sit with at the ceremony on 8 May. He may have to eat a different course at each table. At least Thorne is in different categories. Films of Record, an independent production company, is less happily competing against itself to win the factual series trophy for both BBC2’s Great Ormond Street and Channel 4’s The Murder Detectives. Because Bafta sticks strictly to the previous calendar year, its nominations can suffer from time-lag. The shows people are talking about at the moment – , the second series of  – won’t be under consideration until next spring. Over at Bafta, this is the year of  – which already feels, in TV terms, almost as distant as Tudor times. In another sense, though, the list is up-to-the-minute. The  is less likely here. Non-white talent is recognised in most performing categories: from the established Idris Elba and Cyril Nri to newer performers such as ,  and . Chewing Gum, an E4 sitcom adapted from a  by 29-year-old Cole, rightly gets a nomination as well in the scripted comedy category. There is also a wider diversity. Ruth Madeley, a wheelchair-user, is a best actress nominee for Don’t Take My Baby, and seniority is respected by several mentions. The BBC1 wildlife documentary The Huntis narrated by Sir David Attenborough,who will turn 90 on the day of the presentation, while acting honorees include Sir Ian McKellen, 76, and his northern near-contemporary, Sir Tom Courtenay, 79. Courtenay, though, is the single representative of , the eight-part drama about a cold case investigation that was ITV’s biggest drama of last year. With Downton Abbey also entirely overlooked for its final run, this is a grim year for the UK’s second-oldest TV broadcaster, and presents a challenge to its new incoming management. The only really new material featured is the documentary Jihad: A British Story, with the small haul of eight nominations swollen by the showing from old war-horses, such as Coronation Street, Emmerdale, Britain’s Got Talent and I’m a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!  Ant and Dec’s jungle canteen, however, stands little chance in the reality and constructed factual category, where its rivals are three of the most original and talked-about formats of recent years: , Gogglebox and . All of that trio are screened by Channel 4, which keeps up its record of matching the BBC at the Bafta bash, despite producing far less in categories such as drama, documentary and comedy. Two of the network’s shows, Humans and No Offence, make up half the Best Drama shortlist, although 4 will now feel even sadder to have lost  to the BBC, as his Car Share is up for three prizes. At New Broadcasting House, Lord Hall of Birkenhead will be pleased by that and the domination of Wolf Hall, which should also delight Culture Secretary John Whittingdale, currently deciding the BBC’s future, as the Mantel adaptation seems to be one of the few of its shows that he likes. What Whittingdale should also note – as the nominations acknowledge – is the cleverness BBC drama has shown in refreshing familiar templates. Mike Bartlett’s Doctor Foster and Tom Robb Smith’s London Spywerea medical and an espionage drama, but went psychologically far beyond those genres. Their stars, Suranne Jones and Ben Whishaw, are rightly noticed for their visceral portrayals of people whose lives implode.  The BBC director general should also by pleased by indications that his policy of big-budget old-fashioned cultural blockbusters, designed to secure a new licence fee settlement from the government, certainly seems to have impressed industry peers. A top-end arts documentary, Rudolf Nureyev - Dance to Freedom, gives the BBC a better than usual chance against Grayson Perry’s latest classy series for Channel 4, and a show-off drama, an adaptation of Ronald Harwood’s play The Dresser, got McKellen his listing, although the Academy can be seen to have snubbed his co-star Sir Anthony Hopkins. Electors have also ignored Poldark (which gets a consolation in the Audience Award, chosen by Radio Times readers). But all electorates have their prejudices: Oscar voters seem to prefer white people and Bafta members, faced with a head-to-head between Poldark and Wolf Hall would, you suspect, be more likely to tune in for Mark Rylance than Aidan Turner.</content>
<class_name>Baftas,Baftas 2016,Awards and prizes,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T11:17:23+0100</date>
<title>Baftas 2016: there'll be no diversity row – but Poldark and Downton Abbey fans will be angry</title>
<content>Actor Patty Duke, best known for her Oscar-winning performance as Helen Keller in 1962’s The Miracle Worker, has died at 69.“Anna ‘Patty Duke’ Pearce passed away this morning 29 March 2016 at 1.20am,” a  by Mitchell Stubbs, one of her representatives, read. “Her cause of death was sepsis from a ruptured intestine. She was a wife, a mother, a grandmother, a friend, a mental health advocate and a cultural icon. She will be missed.”When Duke won her Academy Award for best supporting actress at age 16, she was the youngest person to win an Oscar. Her award for playing the blind-and-deaf American launched her career: the following year she led her own series, The Patty Duke Show, created especially for her. In the show, which ran for 104 episodes from 1963 to 1966, Duke did double duty as two identical but very different cousins, one American and one English. She was the youngest actor to have a TV series bearing her name.Duke continued to find success on the small screen, earning three Emmy awards, including wins for Captains and Kings and My Sweet Charlie. In total, she was nominated eight times.On the big screen, Duke also starred in Happy Anniversary (1959), Valley of the Dolls (1967), By Design (1982), Willy/Milly (1986), The Hitch-Hikers (1989), Prelude to a Kiss (1992) and Bigger Than the Sky (2005). Duke originated the role of Keller in The Miracle Worker onstage in her Broadway debut, before making the film adaptation. For the part, Duke is said to have rehearsed with a blindfold for roughly a year. She revisited the material in 1979 for a TV version of the play, for which she won an Emmy playing Keller’s teacher – the role originally played on Broadway by .In 1982, the actor was diagnosed with . Soon after, she became an advocate for mental health issues, working extensively with the National Institute of Mental Health and the National Alliance on Mental Illness. She documented her struggle in her 1987 autobiography, Call Me Anna: The Autobiography of Patty Duke. In the book, Duke also alleged that her managers, when she was a child star, had sexually abused her and squandered her earnings. As a result, she said, she began drinking and abusing prescription drugs as a teenager.Born Anna Marie Duke on 14 December 1946, she was one of three children. Over the course of her life, she was married four times and raised three sons, two of whom – Sean and Mackenzie Astin – also became actors. In a statement, Duke’s family called her a “beloved wife, mother, grandmother, matriarch and the exquisite artist, humanitarian, and champion for mental health”.“Anna PATTY DUKE Pearce closed her eyes, quieted her pain and ascended to a beautiful place,” the  read. “We celebrate the infinite love and compassion she shared through her work and throughout her life. Her work endures...”</content>
<class_name>Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T19:48:19+0100</date>
<title>Patty Duke, Oscar-winning actress and former child star of TV show, dies at 69</title>
<content>Ah, this is nice: the kind of dreamy, shimmery euphoria-and-melancholy-all-at-once, sample-heavy stuff that characterises London four-piece Clock Opera’s work. The band is back after a three-year break with a crowdfunded second album, and In Memory, it says in the blurb, is their most intimate and personal song, albeit one that sounds a bit like waking up at 2am and the sockless hipster you played frisbee in the park with once last June is outside your house, pleading for you to be with him. But you know, in a good way.Not to be hyperbolic, but you do feel that Highasakite are a milestone on the road towards The End Of Music As We Know It: they are described as “Nordic-noir-epic-electro-pop”, which the lay observer will note is every single genre at once, and hold the lofty title of being the only band to perform live on Made In Chelsea this series. There’s not much left to happen to music after this, is there? We’re done. This at least is a nice way to go out: brooding and anxious in the same way you feel when you go into an All Saints and realise they’re having a staff party and, oh god, someone wearing six leather jackets just locked the door behind you. Oh god.Remember when you were young and full of the yearning to escape this one-horse town with its single branch of Costa and get out there, to go to Leeds fest without a chaperone – mum, why don’t you trust me? Well, so does every single band in history. Sundara Karma are the latest to distil suburban disquiet into big-chorus indie-pop. A Young Understanding – and this is meant in the nicest way – is made to be performed to 20,000 people as they drink wine out of a bag while they wait for the real headliner to turn up.Gomez has been releasing banger after banger lately, and Hands To Myself could easily be another one if it had any idea what it was. It feels like an entire album crammed into one sampler: starting with absurdly NSFW breathy sex chat, flirting with a Pixies riff, and then segueing into a novelty rap call-and-response bit. Ever open a YouTube video when you’ve got Spotify running, and the two songs mesh for a minute before you really notice? Well, Selena Gomez is doing that for a career.What happened to the Beautiful South, we all wonder. Well, wonder no more: Paul Heaton and Jacqui Abbott are still vocalling together, and it’s more or less the same as it ever was. They’ve even repeated the Don’t Marry Her trick of drastically altering the lyrics to make them radio friendly, this time changing “bitch” to “witch”, which… which sort of makes even less sense than before. A shame because, climate-wise, the world is ready for a men are bad-themed banger. This just isn’t it.</content>
<class_name>Pop and rock,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T13:00:18+0000</date>
<title>Clock Opera’s In Memory: the best of this week’s new music</title>
<content>‘To write a poem after Auschwitz is barbaric,” wrote the German critic Theodor Adorno soon after the second world war. He later modified his statement by saying: “The main question is: can we go on living after Auschwitz?” This was the problem with which the Nobel prize-winning Hungarian Jewish writer Imre Kertész, a survivor of the , grappled throughout his life and literary work, until his death at the age of 86.Kertész’s first and most influential novel, Sorstalanság (Fatelessness, 1975), is the story of a 14-year-old boy, Gyuri Köves, who survives deportation to Auschwitz and captivity in Buchenwald, and, on his return to , finds it impossible to relate his experiences to his surviving family. The book was at first hardly noticed by Hungarian critics and only became a success many years later once it had been translated into German and then, in 2005, made into a film by the Hungarian cinematographer Lajos Koltai. While lacking the biting irony of Tadeusz Borowski’s Auschwitz stories, Sorstalanság differs from most accounts of Nazi concentration camps in its relentless objectivity, and as such is a unique achievement of its kind.It was mainly on the strength of this book, followed by two more novels: A Kudarc (The Failure, 1988) and Kaddis a Meg Nem Született Gyermekért (Kaddish for an Unborn Child, 1990), that Kertész was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 2002.Kertész was born in Budapest, into a lower-middle-class family. From 1938 laws had been introduced that curtailed the freedom of Hungarian Jews, but the situation changed dramatically in March 1944, when Adolf Hitler invaded the country. Unable to continue his schooling, Kertész, aged 14, was forced to work as a manual labourer. A few months later, he was held in a round up of Budapest Jews and deported to Auschwitz and then Buchenwald, where he survived the war.He returned to Hungary to complete his studies and gain his high school certificate in 1948, and for several years worked as a journalist for the journal Világosság (Clarity). After a spell as a factory worker, he found a position in the press department of the ministry of heavy industry, and from 1953 onwards he was a freelance journalist and translator of literature, in particular of the works of German language writers and philosophers such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Hugo von Hoffmanstahl, Elias Canetti, Arthur Schnitzler, Sigmund Freud and Ludwig Wittgenstein.Kertész struggled to get his first novel published in the restrictive atmosphere of Hungary’s communist regime, partly due to his focus on the problem of Jewish identity and its consequences. In Kaddis, the narrator is asked by his wife whether they could have a child. The answer is “no”, because as a survivor of the Holocaust Kertész’s hero finds the human condition almost unbearable. His problem is not finding a place in Hungarian society but “assimilation to life itself”. His decision not to procreate alienates his wife and the marriage breaks up.Kertész’s books also sometimes betrayed his ambivalent relationship with religion, which at times led him to doubt the existence of God. In his work Gályanapló (Galley Boat-Log, 1992) he chose a paradox to express his doubts: “God is Auschwitz, but also He who brought me out of there, who obliged, even compelled me to give an account of all that there happened, because He wants to know and hear what he had done.”Often tempted by suicide, Kertész somehow persevered and it was not until 2003 in his novel Felszámolás (Liquidation, 2003) that he produced a hero who actually kills himself. The ending to that book was probably influenced by his recurring depression after he was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease. In 2014, having lived in Berlin for a number of years, Kertész moved back to Budapest, ostensibly for medical treatment.His last book, A Végső Kocsma (The Ultimate Inn, 2014) was not a conventional novel, but an amalgam of sketches for a would-be novel allied to notes from his diaries of 2001 onwards, mainly on the subject of the decline of the west and his ambivalent feelings about contemporary Hungary, where deeply rooted antisemitic views are still rife and often displayed by unscrupulous politicians.Kertész won numerous literary honours from 1983 onwards, including the Attila József (1989) Márai (1996) and Kossuth (1997) prizes in Hungary, where he was also appointed to the Order of St Stephen, the country’s highest distinction. He received many foreign awards and decorations, too, including the Brandenburg literature prize (1995), the Friedrich Gundolf prize (1997) and the Goethe medal (2004).Kertész is survived by his second wife, Magda Ambrus, whom he married in 1996. His first wife, Albina Vas, died in 1995. Imre Kertész, writer, born 9 November 1929; died 31 March 2016</content>
<class_name>Nobel prize in literature,Holocaust,Hungary,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:25:49+0100</date>
<title>Imre Kertész obituary</title>
<content>ichard Eyre famously directed a 90-minute version of Ghosts at . Ibsen’s play had a profound effect on Eugene O’Neill’s lengthy autobiographical masterpiece, which Eyre now steers home in three and a quarter hours. For my taste, this is too fast but there is no denying this is a distinguished event with a cast headed by Lesley Manville, who was Mrs Alving in Ghosts, and Jeremy Irons, returning to the theatre where he started to be part of its 250th anniversary.But timing matters with O’Neill as much as it does in a Wagner opera. I suspect Eyre is seeking to contrast the brisk allegro of the play’s opening with the long adagio of its tragic end where the four members of the Tyrone family confront the appalling truth. But too often the tempo is unvaried, so that we miss the almost comic pattern of accusation and retraction that afflicts all the characters. When James Tyrone, a celebrated actor who sold out to commercial success, recites Shakespeare and his tubercular son Edmund recites Baudelaire, we should also feel them dwelling on the consolations of poetry rather than rushing through the speeches as they do here.There are, however, many virtues to Eyre’s production. I’ve never felt so strongly before the sexual passion that Tyrone and his morphine-addicted wife, Mary, still feel for each other after 36 years. Manville is also outstanding as Mary. She mesmerisingly captures the violent mood-swings of the addict, switching in a second from girlish friskiness to mordant recrimination. She conveys Mary’s inner anxiety through a compulsive talkativeness and physical restlessness that leads her to be forever needlessly patting cushions. In Manville’s expert hands, O’Neill’s play becomes Mary’s tragedy: the story of a woman whose drug dependence was the result of her husband’s stinginess and who journeys into a past filled with religious faith and innocent hope.Loss of faith affects all the characters: in the case of Tyrone, it is faith in his potential as a great Shakespearean actor. Irons has, of course, played Shakespeare but he remains unusual casting for the role. His forte is to suggest a refined asceticism whereas O’Neill’s character is a broad-shouldered, hard-drinking figure of Irish peasant stock. But, although cast against type and not always secure with the lines, Irons brings out strongly Tyrone’s tortured love for his wife: the moments I shall remember from his performance are those where he gazes at her with a sad-eyed mixture of guilt and longing.The two Tyrone sons are also very good. Hadley Fraser has just the right blend of man-about-town ebullience and self-loathing as the worldly James Tyrone Jr and Billy Howle, a graduate of  Old Vic theatre school, lends the consumptive Edmund a fitful romanticism and tainted hopelessness: it struck me the character is a direct parallel to Oswald in Ghosts. Jessica Regan also appears to telling effect as a caustic Irish maid who has the capacity for contradiction that blights her employers. It’s a great play filled with what the American critic Harold Clurman calls “the soulful poetry of despair and forgiveness”. And, although Eyre’s production often goes at too great a lick, it gets there in the end with the characters frozen in a deeply moving pietà in which Manville’s Mary takes on the quality of a wrecked madonna.</content>
<class_name>Theatre,Eugene O'Neill,Jeremy Irons,Bristol,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T11:57:56+0100</date>
<title>Long Day's Journey Into Night review – Jeremy Irons and Lesley Manville shine with sexual passion and rage</title>
<content>n  at the National Theatre, Katie Mitchell produced a memorable 90-minute response to Dostoevsky’s partly autobiographical novel, The Idiot, about a holy fool afflicted with epilepsy, whose goodness means he is underestimated by those he encounters. Mitchell recognised the novel as an exercise as much in form as content – and so do , though they lack the financial and technical resources that Mitchell had at her disposal. “That cost half the budget,” observes Jonnie Bayfield’s Dostoevsky balefully, pointing to the flashing sign that shouts “This is not an adaptation” in block capitals. Quite a lot of this 70-minute show seems to be performed in block capitals, too. Just as Dan Rebellato made successful theatrical capital out of relocating the author of Three Sisters and The Cherry Orchard to modern-day London in , so Caligula’s Alibi offer us a Dostoevsky in a contemporary purgatory who is being harried by a moustache-twirling bureaucrat (an engaging Adam Colborne) investigating the writer for disability fraud. It’s a good device that makes us see the parallels between corrupt and abusive mid-19th-century Russia and our own times, but the show skitters all over the place without committing itself to any particular line of inquiry, so the overall impression is of some good ideas that are not yet fully explored intellectually or aesthetically. There’s fun to be had along the way, some of it quite strident. But while the piece begins in a jokey fashion that leads you to think it is a comedy, it clearly yearns to be something more meaningful without finding its own distinctive voice or what it wants to say. The real irony is that although it eschews adaptation, the most satisfying parts of the evening are those when it is closest to that.</content>
<class_name>Theatre,Fyodor Dostoevsky,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:59:07+0100</date>
<title>Idiots review – strident but skittish Dostoevsky adaptation</title>
<content>From the hair alone you may infer the Donald. Ridiculous, unconstrained by normal rules of reason, taste and decency, and yet, against all the odds, surviving.So we must turn, with darkening eyes and heavy hearts, to last night’s documentary by Channel 4’s Europe editor , which posed the question that would have seemed as ridiculous as the hair even three months ago – Frei follows Trump on the campaign trail as the bumptious billionaire promises to pay the legal fees of anyone disposed to “knock the crap” out of any press at his rallies, calls Hillary Clinton “in a certain way, evil” and asks his followers – who call his campaign “a movement” – rhetorically, “Is she crooked or what?”. All while he lays out his three-point plan to make America great again: ban Muslims from entering, deport 11 million illegal immigrants and – most famously, risibly and so far effectively – build a wall between it and Mexico.It was a comprehensive tour of what someone unfettered by interests other than his own can do by tapping into a groundswell of genuine and legitimate anger (among the increasingly disenfranchised white working class – three-quarters of Americans, as journalist and author  pointed out, effectively haven’t had a pay rise in 40 years), and bigotry that is aggravated when people are under pressure. He promises much; he sounds, if not authentic, then at least different from and “realer” than his establishment counterparts on each side of the political divide. “He’s his own man,” says one supporter, “doing it for the American people.”Frei ably outlined Trump’s progress, the ingredients of his success, the disapplication of normal rules (such as the fact that some evangelical Christians are swarming around a thrice-married candidate who “doesn’t want to get into specifics” when quizzed about his favourite Bible verse) and the problems he is causing for the Republican party. But nothing spoke more eloquently than the look of barely controlled fury on the face of the Republican national security adviser, . “The man is charting a course that will exacerbate America’s decline in the world and will create civil unrest within his border,” he said, spitting the words out as if he wished every one were a bullet aimed at the Donald’s heart. “This is what we’re stuck with.”Meanwhile, Trump continues to win primaries and gather support with promises such as the one to “bring back waterboarding – and a hell of a lot worse!”. Democratic congressman  insists that in 2016, you can’t spend a campaign insulting and alienating Muslims, immigrants, women, African-Americans and anyone else who doesn’t look exactly like you, and still cobble together an electoral majority at the end. Next to McGrath, he looked like a mindlessly blind optimist. After everything we had been shown, it didn’t seem at all too much of a stretch to think that 2016 might be exactly the year you could do that.***Over on Sky Atlantic,  began. It’s goodish and baddish. Steve Coogan is Thomas Payne, a 44-year-old marketing exec whose life is not as glamorous as you’d think (“Fuck Mad Men!”) and who is busy working out the rights of a man whose job is now in the gift of people 20 years younger than him, whose penis needs Viagra to counteract the effects of Prozac and who appears, in the words of his friend Dani, to have hit his joy ceiling. Ellen Barkin, who plays her, is the bestish thing in it, alongside  who plays Thom’s colleague Jonathan, whom we first meet marvelling at Osama bin Laden’s branding of al-Qaida. “I mean, how much did he spend on 9/11? Couple hundred thousand?”.The problem is that the script sounds like one long, unrelenting howl of rage and pain from a writer () that needed a last, Larry Sanders-ish boost over the edge into comedy. Vicious, black comedy it would have been, on the fate of us all in a post-industrial, postmodern, post-capitalist, post-just-about-everything world, but comedy nevertheless. As it is, we are asked to invest in a whining, self-indulgent central character without much return in the way of laughs or insight. It left me saddish.***(Channel 4), on the other hand, leaves me elated. The first series was furiously fast and furiously funny but in its second run it has developed heart, too. Mum Della (Rebekah Staton) has moved slightly more to the fore and anchors her children and the show. Aretha is falling in intellectual – and possibly other sorts of – love with her economics teacher and Germaine is still gloriously, unstoppably Germaine – an “overadrenalised simpleton” sweeping all before her on a tide of hormones, enthusiasm and widely reported bodily secretions. It ends next week and I miss them all already. They are happiness.</content>
<class_name>Documentary,Factual TV,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:20:07+0100</date>
<title>President Trump: Can He Really Win? review – it's no longer a ridiculous question, sadly</title>
<content>our years ago, a broody Russell Kane . Now, he can decommission his imagination: the  is a recent father, whose new show addresses pregnancy, childbirth and paternal love. Oh, and maturity.Kane used to be notorious for . Now, suited and booted, he’s here to hymn the virtues of happiness in one’s own skin, no matter how pallid, battle-scarred or wrinkly. Which sounds grand, but doesn’t develop as an idea. Nor is it reflected in any mellowing of Kane’s neurotic, hyperactive manner. On the contrary, Right Man, Wrong Age leans heavily on tales of his uptightness, now contrasted with wife Lindsey’s blithe spirit.He’s an insomniac; she can’t stay awake in an unlit room. He neatly folds one holiday outfit per day; she “jazz-packs” bikinis, fur coats and old newspapers. She has undramatic hangovers; he turns vomiting, very amusingly, into an Italian opera. It’s an entertaining picture of a couple with complementary energies, as Kane would have it. It’s also slightly oversold, and there are other instances here of Kane giving one too many examples to bolster a comic point. But if you’re not always laughing, you’re never bored: there’s more – and more lurid – material crammed into these two hours than many comics would fit in a decade. In the second half, it’s mostly about baby Mina’s arrival – and her dad makes up in animation what his stories lack in novelty. Here we are at conception, as Kane roleplays the durability of female sperm over male. Later, we drop in on the 12-week scan, the troubled birth, and an improbable avian encounter in the first weeks of parenthood. (“Have you ever known anyone milked by a crow?!”) It’s not his most thought-provoking show, but it succeeds cheerfully in proving that, for Kane, acting one’s age and being funny needn’t be mutually exclusive.</content>
<class_name>Comedy
(Stage),Comedy
(Culture),Russell Kane,Parents and parenting,Family,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:57:20+0100</date>
<title>Russell Kane review – hyperactive tales of fatherhood and hangovers</title>
<content>Russia’s economy is in recession as it languishes under western sanctions and low oil prices. Three million people fell into poverty last year. But oligarch Mikhail Gutseriev didn’t seem to be feeling the pinch as he shelled out millions of dollars for his son’s weekend wedding in Moscow, which  such as Sting, Jennifer Lopez and Enrique Iglesias. Gutseriev, estimated by Forbes to be worth $6.2bn (£4.3bn), owns assets including the oil company Russneft and has also written songs for famous Russian singers. It was little wonder, then, that he brought in top performers for the wedding on Saturday of his Oxford-educated 28-year-old son, Said, to 19-year-old Khadija Uzhakhova, a dentistry student from the Gutserievs’ ethnic homeland of Ingushetia.J-Lo reportedly performed choreographed hits with a troupe of dancers, at one point joking that pronouncing the bride and groom’s names was “the hardest thing I had to do today”. She has  for similar performances in the past. , who served as the de facto wedding band with songs such as Message in a Bottle and Every Breath You Take, was photographed holding a bouquet and talking to a slightly awkward-looking Said. Other performers included Iglesias, French star Patricia Kaas and Russian singer Alla Pugachyova.About 600 guests, including the Ingushetian president, Yunus-Bek Yevkurov, attended the celebration at the upscale Safisa restaurant, which was covered floor-to-ceiling with elaborate flower arrangements that Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper reported cost about $200,000. The bride was bedecked with diamonds and wore a custom-beaded Elie Saab gown, which can reportedly cost up to £18,000. The nine-tiered wedding cake was topped with a Muslim crescent moon and star.A second wedding celebration in London this weekend will also feature famous singers, according to Russian media reports.The impoverished Ingushetia has the highest unemployment of any region in Russia, and media noted that the wedding  more than the region’s planned expenditures this year on health care and education. Many social media users were , with one uploading a video of the elder Gutseriev advising Russians to “start saving on everything”. </content>
<class_name>Russia,Weddings,Europe,Sting,Jennifer Lopez,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T02:26:30+0100</date>
<title>Sting and Jennifer Lopez star at lavish Moscow wedding of oligarch's son</title>
<content>his play has been assembled, principally by , from the drafts  left behind on her death in 1965. An earlier version was seen at Manchester’s  in 2001, but the overriding impression here is of an epic production by Yaël Farber of a text that explores both the divided individual soul and the bitterness of the colonial legacy. The focus is on Tshembe, superbly played by Danny Sapani, who leaves behind a European wife in London to return to his unnamed African homeland on his father’s death. He finds himself torn between his old allegiance to a Schweitzer-like mission hospital, which helped educate him, and the clamorous demands of a freedom-seeking terrorist movement. The best scenes show Tshembe resisting the pacific overtures of an earnest American journalist, well played by Elliot Cowan, who has come to write a glowing tribute to the mission. When Tshembe tells him that the rape of a continent cannot be erased through a chat over cigarettes and whisky, the line raises cheers from the audience. But, although Hansberry nails the flaws of white liberalism and colonial militarism, her play is very much a product of its time. In arguing that “Africa needs warriors”, it overlooks the dangers of civil war and the possibilities of non-violent resistance. One’s intellectual doubts, however, are overcome by the sensuous sweep of Farber’s production, which deploys a revolving Soutra Gilmour set, the minatory hum of Adam Cork’s sound design, and impressive performances from Gary Beadle and Tunji Kasim as Tshembe’s brothers and from Siân Phillips, Anna Madeley, James Fleet and Clive Francis as contrasting facets of white interventionism. An imperfect play, with little of the specificity of Wole Soyinka’s , has been given a near-perfect production.</content>
<class_name>Theatre,National Theatre,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:37:53+0100</date>
<title>Les Blancs review – a near-perfect production of an imperfect play</title>
<content>ometimes artists can arrive just too fully formed. That certainly seemed to be the case when 19-year-old Liverpudlian singer-songwriter and electro auteur Holly Lapsley Fletcher, aka Låpsley, recently unveiled her buffed and scrupulously .The record is an immaculate masterclass in the strain of blanched, spectral R&B that now appears to be de rigueur for all artily inclined electronic artists in the wake of the successes of James Blake and the xx. Purportedly a breakup album, it laments its maker’s loneliness and heartbreak while appearing not to have a musical or emotional hair out of place.Thankfully, Låpsley cuts a far more visceral and formidable figure live. Statuesque in black, she initially emits a surprising gothic cool, although that soon evaporates when she addresses the packed crowd in broad Scouse: “I dunno if you’ve noticed, but I ain’t shaved me legs.”Musically, she weaves beguiling spells over simultaneously lush, pristine beats and sumptuous programming. In contrast to the muted murmurs of her album, she possesses a powerhouse vocal, belting out the self-lacerating  and the accusatory Tell Me the Truth with a pitch-perfect gusto worthy of her world-dominating labelmate, Adele.She is a skilled producer with a winning trick of lowering and layering her voice until she is performing a male-female duet with herself over the electro twitches and glitches of Station. Operator (He Doesn’t Call Me) could be a great, lost Supremes B-side;  boasts the wounded defiance of a classic soul siren. Beneath her perfect surfaces, Låpsley has a lot going on.</content>
<class_name>Electronic music,R&B,Pop and rock,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:48:29+0100</date>
<title>Låpsley review – beguiling R&B spells and powerhouse vocals</title>
<content>e it , hard drugs or , Primal Scream don’t tend to do things by halves. Which makes the milder incarnation of the Glasgow-founded band that struts on tonight in support of their new album, the minty, synth-pop-flavoured , somewhat unexpected.Andrew Innes is now the lone guitarist in a lineup that once had three. Bassist Simone Butler and vocalist Hannah Marsden flank stubbornly wiry, youthful frontman Bobby Gillespie instead, and threaten to shade his louche voice as they harmonise with him on opening numbers 100% Or Nothing and . Personnel switches haven’t always happened voluntarily to Primal Scream throughout 34 years of keeping on keeping on. Bassist Gary “Mani” Mounfield left to rejoin the Stone Roses in 2011, while guitarist Robert “Throb” Young, who quit in 2008,  after failing to conquer his addictions. But change has more often proven an elixir to a band who have had many lives, from  janglers to  and politico electro-rock noiseniks. Considering their infamous excesses of the past – Gillespie has gotten clean and sober in the last few years – they can be happy to have any life left in them at all.Only four songs from Chaosmosis feature, including the persuasive but undoubtedly past glories reheating of When the Blackout Meets the Fallout and Trippin’ on Your Love. As it approaches 20 years old, 2000’s XTRMNTR is equally well represented. Even in versions sapped of their original venom, Accelerator and Swastika Eyes stake a strong case for this band’s other classic album alongside 1991’s Screamadelica. When  start digging out the greatest hits, you could be watching Gillespie backed by a bunch of Cub Scouts and they’d still wield one of the most high-energy live sets in rock’n’roll.Surprise 2006 hit  has done much to refresh the band’s fanbase over the last decade; played consecutively with that other unfeasibly sleazy drivetime , it heralds the most ecstatically received phase of the set. Enough to merit a traditional Glaswegian chant of “here we fucking go”, which morphs into the more personalised salute of “Bobby fucking G”, forcing even this most poker-faced of performers to crack a warm smile. A swaying singalong to the bluesy I’m Losing More Than I’ll Ever Have winds back to 1989, priming a euphoric finish of Loaded and . As the Screamadelica logo flashes on the screen behind them, it’s clear that the only type of trips Gillespie and co are indulging in these days are of the nostalgia kind – but they’re well earned.</content>
<class_name>Primal Scream,Pop and rock,Indie,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:52:43+0100</date>
<title>Primal Scream review – Bobby G's barmy army earn Glasgow kiss</title>
<content>One of the many perks of being the US president is that if you fancy hosting an International Jazz Day concert from your front room, you can. Barack Obama and wife Michelle have announced plans to hold a concert next month, featuring a string of musical legends including , Al Jarreau, Sting and Herbie Hancock.The show will take place at the White House, Washington DC – this year’s host city – on 29 April, and will be televised a day later by ABC, to mark the fifth anniversary of International  Day.“Jazz has been a uniting force and very unifying for people all over the world for the last century,” Tom Carter, president of the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, told the Associated Press. “It is the voice for many of those facing challenges around the world.”Jazz great  said that jazz’s influence has spread beyond its roots in America, and now “incredible” jazz musicians are found everywhere.“That really shows me the power of the music and the fact that it has reached every country on the planet,” Hancock said. In previous years, host cities for International Jazz Day have included Istanbul and Paris.Other performers on the day will include Joey Alexander, Terence Blanchard, Kris Bowers, Dee Dee Bridgewater, Till Brönner, Terri Lyne Carrington, Chick Corea, Jamie Cullum, Kurt Elling, Robert Glasper, Buddy Guy, Dave Holland, Zakir Hussain, Diana Krall, Lionel Loueke, Hugh Masekela, Christian McBride, John McLaughlin, Pat Metheny, Marcus Miller, James Morrison, Danilo Pérez, Rebirth Brass Band, Dianne Reeves, Lee Ritenour, David Sánchez, Wayne Shorter, Esperanza Spalding, Trombone Shorty, Chucho Valdés, Bobby Watson and Ben Williams. John Beasley is overall musical director.</content>
<class_name>Jazz,Sting,Herbie Hancock,Aretha Franklin,Barack Obama,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:45:01+0100</date>
<title>Barack Obama to host International Jazz Day concert at White House</title>
<content>The director of a controversial documentary about the disproven link between a vaccine and autism said that “the first amendment is under attack” in the wake of Tribeca film festival’s  to pull the film from its lineup.“It’s moved from a vaccine issue and civil rights issue to a first amendment issue,” said Andrew Wakefield, the director of Vaxxed: from Cover-Up to Catastrophe and who published a study in 1998 that claimed links between a vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and autism. His paper was quickly found to contain numerous flaws and was deemed by the British Medical Journal “”. The Lancet, which originally published the study, retracted it in 2010, the same year that Wakefield was in the UK.Wakefield spoke at a press conference in Los Angeles on behalf of the film on Wednesday, after distributor Cinema Libre Studio  that it would open the film on Friday in New York followed by further engagements nationwide. Wakefield said Tribeca’s last-minute decision to drop the film days after , who is a co-founder of the film festival, defended its inclusion, “should be an outrage to film-makers everywhere.”His sentiment was echoed by Philippe Diaz, Cinema Libre’s CEO, who said Tribeca had sent “a terrible message to film-makers”.Diaz recalled a “very heated” argument with the event’s directors on Saturday after learning of the news. “I said to them: ‘You are destroying the lives of the film-makers, as well as the distributor – this decision will hurt us.’”Asked if all the attention the Tribeca controversy has brought to  could in turn benefit the film, Diaz shot down the assumption, saying that De Niro distancing himself from it has only done damage. “People now think [Vaxxed] is full of hot air,” Diaz said. “I wish we could have at least screened at Tribeca. I wish that people had seen the movie – and then we could have a real debate about it.”As to how the film was programmed in the first place, Diaz said Wakefield nudged De Niro, who has a child with autism, to let the festival programmers know he had submitted Vaxxed for consideration. “De Niro loves the film, I was told,” said Diaz. “For De Niro, I think it was an important film to show at his festival.” Diaz said the festival’s directors cited pressure from sponsors as the key reason for cutting it from the lineup. One of the event’s major donors is the Alfred P Sloan Foundation, which, along with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,  Since word of the documentary first broke following its initial inclusion in the  lineup, Vaxxed has often been described as an “anti-vaccine” film. The film-makers argued that’s a falsehood, stressing its aim is to make sure that vaccines are “safe”.The film aims to prove Wakefield’s discredited theory, in part by claiming new evidence that it says the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suppressed.Wakefield said: “The media has been duped, the public has been duped, willingly or not – because this is  an anti-vaccine documentary. This is about safe and effective vaccines against serious diseases in children.”“No one at this table is anti-vaccine,” stressed Diaz.“If you want to see what this film is about then go,” concluded Wakefield. “If you don’t, then don’t comment.”Audiences in  will have a chance to view the film starting on Friday at arthouse cinema, the Angelika Film Center. A Friday and Saturday screening will be followed by Q&As with Wakefield.</content>
<class_name>Vaxxed,Robert De Niro,Documentary,Tribeca film festival,New York,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T02:20:56+0100</date>
<title>Director of controversial Vaxxed film calls Tribeca snub a free speech issue</title>
<content> has written his own Batman movie, but is only currently contracted to play the caped crusader in two forthcoming Justice League films, according to the Oscar-winning film-maker’s agent.Affleck has won guarded praise for his turn as the dark knight of Gotham in superhero blockbuster Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, even as the movie itself has suffered critical brickbats. Filmgoers appear to be ignoring the reviews, as Zack Snyder’s film  in less than a week on release.“He’s contracted to do at least Justice League One and Two, so at least three times wearing the cape,” WME-IMG’s Patrick Whitesell , adding: “There’s a script that he’s written that is a really cool [Batman] idea, so that’s out there as an option.”There have long been rumours that Affleck will direct himself in a solo Batman outing once the Justice League films, scheduled for 2017 and 2018, have hit cinemas.  that Affleck would co-write the screenplay with DC Comics chief creative officer Geoff Johns. It would be the first stand-alone Batman movie since 2012’s The Dark Knight Rises. Justice League parts one and two will see Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and other comic-book titans combine to create an Avengers-style superhero ensemble to take on mankind’s greatest threats. Snyder, despite critical scorn for Batman v Superman, is attached to direct both movies.In other Dawn of Justice news, the experience of scoring Snyder’s movie was apparently enough to .Having won huge acclaim for his brooding, Grammy-winning soundtrack to the hit Batman movie  in 2008, Zimmer was the obvious choice to return for the latest film. But the composer told the BBC he found the experience difficult.“I have officially retired from the superhero business,” said Zimmer, who also scored 2005’s  and 2012’s . “[Batman v Superman] was very hard for me to do, to try to find new language. I did Batman Begins with Chris [Nolan] 12 years ago, so The Dark Knight trilogy might be three movies to you; to me it was 11 years of my life.”Zimmer will be working with Nolan again, however, on the forthcoming second world war epic .</content>
<class_name>Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice,Superhero movies,Ben Affleck,Warner Bros,DC Comics,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:29:13+0100</date>
<title>Batfleck begins: Ben Affleck 'has written his own Batman movie'</title>
<content>Female authors and reviewers have found more room on literary pages over , according to the annual Vida review, which has previously shown a major skew towards male writers and reviewers.The American organisation has tallied up the gender split of reviewers along with the authors being reviewed at major publications including the New York Review of Books, the Times Literary Supplement and the New Yorker for the last six years. This year, it highlighted improvements at Harper’s, where bylines by women have increased by 11 percentage points to 38% of the total since last year, reflecting “executive editor Christopher Beha’s public commitment to improvement”. Granta magazine continued its “steady progress toward gender parity”, said Vida, with women representing 49% of contributors, while at Poetry magazine 49% of bylines were by women.At the New York Times Book Review, women took 45% of the pie. There was also a “dramatic increase” at the New Republic, where women’s share of the total was 45%, up from 27% last year, said Vida. At the Boston Review, meanwhile, women took 46% of the total, up from 33% in 2010.Vida also looked at 26 smaller publications, 15 of which published as many or more bylines by women writers, including A Public Space (72%), The Normal School (69%), and Crab Orchard Review (64%). Nine were closing in on gender parity, with female bylines representing 40-49% of the total, while female writers took less than 40% of the pie at just two of the smaller magazines.The bestselling novelist Jennifer Weiner has long been a vocal critic of gender bias in book reviews, and in 2010 , which she said loved “its literary darlings, who tend to be dudes w/MFAs”.Weiner said she was “happy to see the progress” reflected in the new analysis. “Readers and writers being vocal and persistent have made editors take a hard look at those pie charts and tried to do better,” said Weiner. “While there’s clearly work to be done with regard to inclusion – the push for diversity should not begin and end with more opportunity for straight white women with MFAs – things are moving in the right direction.”Vida’s new figures did reveal a significant gender bias at some of the larger publications. At the New York Review of Books, female authors and reviewers represented 21% of the total. The Times Literary Supplement’s clocked in at 29% and the London Review of Books at 23%. At the Atlantic, the overall percentage for women dropped to 30%, its lowest result for the last three years.“After six years of counting, most major publications are on alert,” said poet and Vida chair Amy King. “That doesn’t mean they’re amenable to taking the disparities seriously, but those who aren’t seem to have realised it’s no longer OK to express such sentiment publicly, and even that is a small step.”“Otherwise, I think publications are becoming more aware, not just because of Vida’s efforts (though I think we play a part), but also because of the increased visibility in culture of the biases and aggressions that play out because of them.”“Women are feeling more empowered to demand their voices be heard – and be heard on our terms,” said King, citing the influence of activist groups such as Black Lives Matter, which was created by women. “It’s why we see such a public polarisation in the US presidential election right now. Many citizens are speaking up on behalf of those who are rendered invisible or silenced, and the backlash against those demands for space and microphones can be heard loudly from the Trump and Cruz camps,” said King. For the first time, this year’s Vida count also looked at female reviewers and authors’ race and ethnicity, sexual identity and ability after surveying almost 700 female writers, finding that straight, white, able-bodied women were best represented. In these respects, some female writers better represented in print, Vida said in its report, asking: “To what extent is the status quo rendered bankrupt by such glaring absences? If the literary landscape is dominated by specific groups, how can we be healthy as a society and benefit from both our differences and commonalities? Isn’t one of literature’s effects to humanise populations beyond our own?”The New Republic published the most bylines by women of colour; 17 of the 47 stories Vida’s survey respondents represented were written by women of colour.The New York Times Book Review published the greatest number of bylines (25) by writers who identified as mixed-race, and the Times Literary came second with 18 bylines. The New Yorker and the TLS published women writers in “all sexual identity categories”, Vida reported, and Poetry magazine featured 55 bylines by non-heterosexual authors, compared to 48 bylines by straight/heterosexual female writers. The Atlantic, by contrast, had 19 bylines by straight/heterosexual writers and just one byline by a writer whose sexual identity is broad spectrum.Six of the 15 major publications looked at by Vida – the Atlantic, Harper’s, the Nation, New York Review of Books, Paris Review, and Threepenny - did not include bylines by disabled women writers. The TLS, NYTBR and Tin House were found to have the most bylines by disabled women writers.The award-winning author Nicola Griffith, who last year discovered after analysis that , said she was “absolutely delighted” that Vida had expanded its count this year. “It’s clear that there are very few women being published in these journals who manage to surmount more than one degree of difficulty from the easiest setting – that is, straight, white, male, and able-bodied,” said Griffith. “I found myself eagerly searching for writers like me – queer and crippled as well as a woman – because it helps to know there are others who have broken past multiple barriers to entry. We all look for our tribe, and the smaller our tribe the more we need to find it.”Griffith hopes Vida will now expand its remit to survey the gender of book protagonists.  looking at the winner of six major awards found that the majority were written about male characters. “. The novels were overwhelmingly about men,” she said.</content>
<class_name>Publishing,Newspapers & magazines,Literary criticism,Women,Magazines,Feminism,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:01:34+0100</date>
<title>Female authors make inroads at major publications – survey</title>
<content>hen adman Sir John Hegarty approached  in the summer of 1998 with an idea that would become the second of three adverts for the brand’s Sta-Prest jeans, he left one crucial detail to the end of his pitch.The co-founder of advertising firm  went through the script:two friends are in a car, reminiscent of Jack Kerouac’s novel On the Road. A traffic policeman pulls them over, searches the boot, finds a stash of unusually crease-free clothing and lets them go on their way. Then he made his confession: “There’s just one thing I haven’t told you. One of the characters in this partnership is a yellow fluffy puppet.”The response to the pitch went from enthusiastic to muted. Hegarty had to make the case for it on two further occasions before he finally got his way.The ads were inspired by a music video released by the French electronic musician and film-maker  earlier that year. That video, for a track called , starred a glove puppet he had found at a flea market and fell in love with instantly. Dupieux, who also goes by the stage name Mr Oizo, had a friend make a body for the puppet and Stéphane was born.The first concern, once the client and Dupieux were on board, was to avoid any potential copyright infringements by creating a new character for the ads. , freelancing for the  in London at the time, was tasked with “making Stéphane, but Stéphane”.“Quentin was very attached to him, so my job was to put a lot of ideas together and make a new character, Flat Eric,” says Knechtel. “I took Flat Eric and Stéphane to a copyright lawyer. She said: ‘If you change the shape of the nose, then I will be happy they are different.’ That’s why Flat Eric has a triangular nose.”Just three weeks after her first meeting with BBH, Knechtel set off for Los Angeles for the three-day shoot – the newly finished puppet in her hand luggage (a spare packed safely away in the hold).Dupieux, 24 at the time and with no experience of the world of advertising, directed the adverts. He couldn’t believe his good fortune. “It was my first time in LA and I managed to take some people from my crew – the director of photography, for example. He was a good friend who did the short film with Stéphane. It was like doing my short film again, with more money, a good fee and more excitement of course, because it was going to play on TV.”Puppeteer Drew Massey, a Henson regular, was hired for the shoot. “There was this patio. The agency and client were there. He just walked out with Flat Eric on his hand and gave them a show,” remembers Knechtel. “It was magic because they hadn’t seen this puppet come to life.”For Massey, Flat Eric represented a fun challenge thanks partly to the fact that he had no voice in the adverts. “Everything he did had to be physical,” he explains. “I like all the subtle movements and reactions between the lines of the other characters – and fortunately, Quentin loves all that stuff too. He’s really into the surrealism and subtlety.”Levi’s commissioned some audience research prior to releasing the adverts, the results of which weren’t promising. It aired them anyway, in January 1999. “Once it got out there, it just exploded,” says Hegarty. “I thought it would be really good. I thought it would be daring. Nobody could have predicted the success.” People built fan-sites dedicated to the puppet, demanded Flat Eric merchandise (you can pick up one of the dolls on eBay for around £50 today) and wrote newspaper think pieces about the puppet as the bridge between consumerism and popular culture. They also bootlegged the adverts’ soundtrack, forcing Dupieux to release it as a single – something he hadn’t thought of doing until that point. “It was supposed to be 20 seconds for the commercial,” he recalls. “So I just did what I was doing back in the day: this rough house music thing. I did a draft in two hours the day before I went to LA to shoot the commercial.”The single he released, , sold millions of copies and spent two weeks at number one in March 1999. “Of course I was happy, but it’s like when you’re at school and you don’t work, but get a good grade,” says Dupieux. “I still think Flat Beat was funny. It was a cool piece of music for the puppet, but I don’t get the success of it all. It was just a stupid loop.”The Flat Eric ads were intended to be a one-off campaign, but Levi’s commissioned another set that aired the following summer. It’s a source of regret for Hegarty that the brand didn’t use the character again after that. He thinks Levi’s should have kept hold of the character and kept developing it. “Their loss really, but the fact the character has endured is brilliant,” he says.Flat Eric has indeed. Dupieux retained the copyright and has released a number of short films and music videos with him over the years, including  with a cameo by Pharrell Williams in 2009 and  for Red Bull Music Academy in October 2015, which saw Massey reunited with Flat Eric for the first time since the original shoot. The musician also got a sizeable cut of the sales of Flat Eric merchandise, giving him the sort of financial independence he had never dreamed of.“I used to hate that puppet because when I was putting out new music people were asking about it,” he says. “I’m super happy now when I look back, of course.“When I do DJ gigs there’s always at least five people who bring the Flat Eric puppet. It’s so cute and funny; I created a character that will live forever.”</content>
<class_name>Advertising,Marketing & PR,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:40:13+0100</date>
<title>'A character that will live forever' – how we made the Levi's Flat Eric ads</title>
<content>On Wednesday, we brought you the most popular singles of all time, , by ranking them according to their streaming numbers on Spotify. Now we’re doing the same with albums – once again, the people at Spotify have been through their data, revealed the all-time most popular albums, and produced their own top 20 according to streaming data. These figures were correct as of 22 March.Once again, the differences between the old chart – based on physical sales – and the new one are stark.  launched only in October 2008, and so there is an inbuilt bias among its users to gravitate towards new music. Even so, the results are startling.1. (No 21 in the all-time bestsellers list)  – 21 (806,023,008 streams)2. (No 28) Metallica – Metallica (229,955,391)3. (No 29) Nirvana – Nevermind (121,970,542)4. (No 23) Bruce Springsteen – Born in the USA (94,855,753)5. (No 10) Led Zeppelin – Led Zeppelin IV (93,040,647)6. (No 22) The Beatles – Abbey Road (69,365,618)7. (No 7) Bee Gees/Various Artists – Saturday Night Fever (65,580,111)8. (No 4) Whitney Houston/Various Artists – The Bodyguard (59,972,881)9. (No 2) AC/DC – Back in Black (56,449,731)10. (No 15) Eagles – Hotel California (55,650,887)11. (No 8) Fleetwood Mac – Rumours (53,960,342)12. (No 25) Whitney Houston – Whitney Houston (51,724,446)13. (No 13) Celine Dion – Falling Into You (46,108,840)14. (No 20) The Beatles – 1 (44,736,403)15. (No 12) Alanis Morissette – Jagged Little Pill (42,863,108)16. (No 17) Michael Jackson – Dangerous (39,327,430)17. (No 16) Mariah Carey – Music Box (22,228,518)18. (No 1) Michael Jackson - Thriller (19,260,591)19. (No 18) Various Artists – Dirty Dancing (16,471,861)20. (No 5) Meat Loaf – Bat Out of Hell (14,177,469)1. Ed Sheeran – x2. Justin Bieber – Purpose3. The Weeknd – Beauty Behind the Madness4. Calvin Harris – Motion5. Calvin Harris – 18 Months6. Sia – 1000 Forms of Fear7. Sam Smith – In the Lonely Hour8. Drake – If You’re Reading This It’s Too Late9. Bruno Mars – Unorthodox Jukebox10. Macklemore & Ryan Lewis – The Heist11. Ariana Grande – My Everything12. Jack Ü – Skrillex and Diplo present Jack Ü13. Avicii – True14. Imagine Dragons – Night Visions15. One Direction – Midnight Memories (Deluxe)16. One Direction – Four17. Arctic Monkeys – AM18. Meghan Trainor – Title19. One Direction – Take Me Home: Yearbook Edition20. Beyoncé – Beyoncé</content>
<class_name>Music streaming,Adele,Music industry,Spotify,Digital music and audio,Internet,Pop and rock,Hip-hop,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:27:45+0100</date>
<title>The bestselling albums of all-time – reranked by streaming stats</title>
<content>Ronnie Corbett, one of Britain’s most popular entertainers, who was a regular television fixture for more than 50 years, has died aged 85. Corbett first came to fame on The Frost Report in the 1960s but was best known as one half of The Two Ronnies with his comedy partner, Ronnie Barker, who died in 2005.A statement from his publicist said: “Ronnie Corbett CBE, one of the nation’s best-loved entertainers, passed away this morning, surrounded by his loving family. “They have asked that their privacy is respected at this very sad time.” Tributes were paid by figures from across the comedy world. Michael Palin fondly remembered Corbett’s silliness, John Cleese called him “a great, kind mentor”, and Miranda Hart said she was “having a little weep at the death of one of my heroes”.Corbett was a staple of British television for more than 50 years and will be particularly remembered for his rambling, convoluted monologues which went off at wild tangents on The Two Ronnies – often at the expense of the show’s producer – before reaching its punchline.The Two Ronnies ran from 1971 to 1987 and always began with the pair reading mock news headlines, along the lines of: “A man from Dagenham has named his son TGF 308F. He said he may not be rich but when he eventually leaves his son his Ford Mondeo, at least he’ll have his own personalised number plate.”He appeared in some of the most fondly remembered comedy sketches of the last 50 years, not least as an increasingly exasperated hardware store owner not knowing if Barker wanted four candles or fork handles.Another was the Mastermind sketch where he chose his subject as “answering the question before last” so what’s the difference between a donkey and an ass was answered: “One’s a trade union leader, the other is a member of the cabinet.”Corbett’s breakthrough came after David Frost spotted him in cabaret at Danny La Rue’s nightclub Winston’s. He was invited to appear in The Frost Report slongside Frost, Barker and John Cleese and soon went on to enjoy a string of other TV successes including Corbett’s Follies and No, That’s Me Over Here.Like Barker, Corbett had a successful solo career, with his best-known role being that of Timothy Lumsden in the sitcom Sorry! between 1981 and 88. Dominated by his overpowering mother he played a fortysomething single man who could never quite leave home.Many of his jokes revolved around his diminutive stature. Only 5ft 1in, Corbett enjoyed telling people that he was, during national service, the shortest commissioned officer in the British forces, and he rarely missed an opportunity to poke self-deprecating fun at his height.Born in Edinburgh in 1930 Corbett began his acting career at the age of 15, when he starred in a pantomime at his local church youth club. The versatile comedian also hosted the BBC One game show Small Talk for two years from 1994 to 96. He recently appeared on the BBC Radio 4 show When the Dog Dies, which saw him reunited with the writers of Sorry! He became something of a national treasure and was not afraid to make fun of it – memorably appearing in Ricky Gervais’s sitcom Extras in which he was caught sniffing cocaine in the gents’ toilet.He kept on working and made, aged 80, a two-part series called Ronnie Corbett’s Comedy Britain in which he met comedians he admired including David Mitchell, Michael McIntyre and Miranda Hart, who all appeared in genuine awe.His comedy skills were often under-appreciated or taken for granted, partly because of the brilliance of Barker. But his fellow performers recognised his talents, with Cleese crediting Corbett with teaching him how to hold a pause.Cleese tweeted: Tony Hall, director general of the BBC, said: “Ronnie Corbett was a wonderful comic and entertainer. A man of great charm and warmth who brought laughter and joy to millions. He was quite simply one of the true greats of British comedy. Our thoughts are with his family and friends at this difficult time.” The prime minister, David Cameron, said: “Ronnie Corbett had the rare talent of making all generations laugh. He’ll be remembered as one of the all-time great comedians.”The Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, tweeted: Nicola Sturgeon, leader of the SNP, tweeted: “Sad to hear about Ronnie Corbett’s death. I loved the Two Ronnies and feel lucky to have grown up in those years. Great comic & a proud Scot.” Sir Michael Parkinson said: “He was a very easy man to love. He was a perfect companion. He was bright. He could tell good stories. He was funny. He was very rarely depressed. “Anne, his wife, she’ll be distraught. I mean, it was a great marriage. They’ve been together for many, many years, and it was a very loving partnership. We were just mates and I shall miss him terribly.” Sir Bruce Forsyth hailed Corbett as one of the greatest entertainers the nation had ever seen: “I have lost a close and very dear friend and we have all lost one of the greatest comedians and entertainers this country has known.”Hugh Laurie, who starred in the BBC’s Night Manager, tweeted:Comedian Miranda Hart said: “Having a little weep at the death of one of my heroes Ronnie Corbett. As he would say ‘Miranda you can’t look up to me’. Goodbye from me.” Michael Palin told BBC Radio 4’s World at One: “Ronnie had a great sense of silliness, which I responded to greatly. He could do the serious stuff as well but there was a lovely sort of mischief, his eyes twinkled. “He was absolutely delightful to play with and against, and do material with and, also, just a good friend too.” David Walliams said: Lord Sugar tweeted: “Sad news about Ronnie Corbett, very funny man RIP.”Ricky Gervais wrote on Twitter: “RIP the lovely, funny legend Ronnie Corbett. It was an absolute honour & joy to have known him.” Rob Brydon said: “So saddened that Ronnie Corbett has passed away. A truly great comedian, a great man and a great friend. He was one of the special ones. RIP.” Writer and actor Mark Gatiss wrote on Twitter: “Ronnie Corbett was the most generous, charming and lovely man. Hugely supportive in the early days of The League Of Gentlemen. The day after we won the Perrier, I saw him in the queue. It was like being blessed by all our childhood Saturday nights. RIP dear man.” Omid Djalili said: “And now Ronnie Corbett. What an absolutely delightful man. Sad sad news RIP.” Jack Whitehall tweeted: “RIP Ronnie Corbett, what a brilliant and funny man he was.”Comedian Sanjeev Bhaskar tweeted: Julian Clary wrote: “R.I.P. Ronnie Corbett, a master of his craft and a huge star.”Former deputy prime minister John Prescott posted a photograph on Twitter of four candles or fork handles, and wrote: “RIP Ronnie Corbett.” Corbett and his wife, Anne Hart, celebrated their golden wedding anniversary last year.The actor, who enjoyed golf, cricket and bread-making, was awarded a CBE in the 2012 New Year honours for his services to charity and the entertainment industry. His wife later revealed that, during a celebration to mark the achievement, he had collapsed in a restaurant and was rushed to hospital. </content>
<class_name>Ronnie Corbett,Comedy
(Culture),Comedy
(Television & radio),Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:52:26+0100</date>
<title>Ronnie Corbett, 'true great' of British TV comedy, dies aged 85</title>
<content>n a Tuesday night last October, I realised I was no longer in love with my football club,  Town. As is the case with most break-ups, this was a slow-burner, a pot of problems which may never have come to the boil had I chosen to work anywhere but my home town. I was fulfilling my journalistic duties and doing what I was paid to do but, as a result, I got too close.I don’t mean in a sentimental way – the irrational sense of loyalty that compels you to drive to Carlisle on a whim to spend your final £20 on a 3-0 defeat. The problem was that I gained an understanding of the inner workings of a football club, of small-time sporting politics and its backstabbing, ignorance and spin. It wasn’t always like that. My dad took me to my first match in 1995 – an FA Cup clash with Marlow – and I quickly developed an insatiable curiosity, which soon turned into an infatuation. Every Christmas I wanted the new kit; I was a mascot twice; I’d rerun Saturday’s goals on a Sunday morning in my parents’ living room; and my cupboards were filled with programmes and mementos. That honeymoon feeling persisted through my teenage years, whatever state the club found itself in, and continued into my working life when I arrived at the Swindon Advertiser in 2009. Today, I can’t motivate myself to smile or sulk as the final scores roll in. On that night in October, I struggled with the concept. I had discovered apathy for my team for the first time. Swindon lost to Oldham Athletic and, as I looked out on the County Ground’s floodlights from my study window, I reflected on the result with a shrug. The process began in early 2013, following the takeover of the club. In the three years since, the boardroom has been dominated by hearsay, scandal, infighting and uncertainty. For months, embedded reporters had to handpick reality from make-believe on a daily basis. Many of us were fans and I felt envious of those who were not. Two warring owners threw loose accusations at one another with increasing regularity. Some allegations were made public and supporters had to watch their club tugged around like a scraggy rope in the High Court. My job was to watch the entire episode through a microscope, poring over the tiny details. Occasionally, I’d remember the glory days of Kevin Horlock, Wayne Allison and the Division Two-winning campaign of 1995-96 which got me hooked, but slowly I found those memories being replaced by paragraphs of legal jargon. Great chunks of the 2003-04 play-off campaign went missing because room needed to be made for the examination of contradictory statements. I have all but forgotten the League Two promotion under Paul Sturrock. Had it been another industry or even another team in the , it would have been fascinating. The stories at hand were the kind that journalists delight in – the intrigue, the dirt, the mystery – but this was my club. I wanted to look on it with childish enthusiasm and to be in the away end at Elland Road, jumping into a stranger’s arms as Charlie Austin scored the third goal in a 3-0 win. Instead, I was fielding questions about the insolvency history of Swindon’s majority shareholder.The County Ground had retained its magical allure for almost two decades but now the stroll to the stadium was just a walk to work. The potholes around the dilapidated car park were deeper and wider, the barbed wire atop two corners of the ground – once unnoticeable – jagged violently into the sky. All I saw were flaws. I had become a cynic. I miss having to restrain my emotions in the press box when Swindon score; recently they recovered from 3-1 down to beat Crewe 4-3 and I caught myself groaning about the resultant 91st-minute rewrite. I no longer walk into the concourse and feel at home; I’ve been banned, ostracised and accused of lying on multiple occasions by the current owner and now play the role of “unwanted guest number one” on matchdays.I hate that Swindon went to Wembley last May for a play-off final, lost 4-0 and three days later I was over the experience. One day Swindon and I might give it another try. If we do, I may need to spend a little less time at work. </content>
<class_name>Swindon,League One,Football League,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:30:00+0100</date>
<title>I was a Swindon Town fan ... until it became my job to report on the club</title>
<content> has hit out at British comic Jack Whitehall for distorting the “wonderful memories” of his recent Oscars nomination. he found himself consoling the veteran action hero after Stallone, who had been favourite, unexpectedly missed out on the best supporting actor prize for his turn in Rocky spin-off . While the comic appears to have been speaking with tongue firmly in cheek, the newspaper reported his comments without reference to their jocular nature. , Stallone appeared to bristle at the suggestion that he might have found himself crying on the shoulder of a little-known British standup. “NEVER met this young man. Pity it has to be under these circumstances,” he wrote.The Hollywood star later  of the Mail Online article where he first came across Whitehall’s comments. “I was very proud of my nomination, worked hard for it , so why would anybody create insulting lies that only distort wonderful memories,” he wrote. “Why do it?”Whitehall also told the Mirror he was required to fill Stallone in on fellow Briton Mark Rylance, the stage actor turned overnight Hollywood success story, who won best supporting actor for his performance as a Soviet agent in Steven Spielberg’s . “I walked straight into Sylvester Stallone afterwards at the Governors Ball,” he said. “I had to console him about missing out on his Oscar, telling him there was always next year. Or maybe if he did Creed 2 he might get a nod. I think it reassured him.“Also, because he knew I was English, I had to tell him who Mark Rylance was. I talked him through all of Mark’s performances at the Globe theatre.“Good old Sly, I loved him in Creed. And I love Mark Rylance, so I had to remain pretty neutral about it.”Responding to Stallone’s social media complaints, : “It’s sad Sly doesn’t remember meeting me. Clearly I made very little impression. The same thing happened to me with Eamonn Holmes at the TV Choice awards.”</content>
<class_name>Sylvester Stallone,Jack Whitehall,Oscars 2016,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:16:49+0100</date>
<title>Sylvester Stallone hits out at Jack Whitehall's 'insulting lies' over Oscars</title>
<content>ondon was bright and sunny on the final day of the season 12 years ago. Arsenal’s players performed a cancan on the pitch at Highbury as fans chanted: “We are unbeatable.” After an iffy first half, they had won 2-1 to complete a full season without defeat in the league.In the aftermath of that glorious achievement there was giddy talk of an assault on Europe as the final frontier. Alan Hansen described them as “the most fluid, devastating team that the British Isles has seen”.“Is this,” asked Amy Lawrence in the Observer, “as good as it gets?”Yes. For , yes, it was – although few seemed to think it then.Kevin McCarra in the Guardian was one of the few to sound a note of caution, wondering whether the move to the new stadium might damagingly curtail transfer spending.Some seven miles to the south-west Claudio Ranieri watched his Chelsea side beat Leeds United 1-0. His fate, though, was already sealed. He spoke about saying goodbye “just in case” but, as he performed a slow, emotional lap of honour and fans chanted his name, everybody knew he was on his way.“I am sad,” Ranieri said, “because I would have liked to have finished the job. But the foundations and spirit at this club have been laid and the gap on Arsenal is closing. My players here are strong and fighters. They can improve – without me. There could be a good future for Chelsea.”There was.But what no one considered then was the possibility that Ranieri might win the Premier League title before Wenger, that the next time he returned to Stamford Bridge, on the final day of the season, 12 years later, it might be to pick up the trophy. And certainly no one thought he might do it with the team who had lost at Highbury that day, a side whose relegation had been confirmed two weeks earlier: Leicester City.The reasons for Arsenal’s stagnation are legion and have been discussed at length, from Wenger’s increasing conservatism to the supposed over-niceness of this group of players, but look at the sweep of the past 12 years and it becomes apparent there is also one huge underlying issue. That is not to say it is the only explanation or the even the most significant explanation, but in answering the question of how Arsenal got from there to here, it is the broadest in scope: Arsenal, through no real fault of their own, found themselves on the wrong side of football’s economics.There will not be much sympathy for the club with the seventh-highest revenues in the world – and nor should there be. But that does not alter the fact Arsenal were caught out by an irony of timing. The move to the Emirates was necessary; no one can seriously dispute that. Highbury, for all its charm, was cramped – so much so that Arsenal had that two-year flirtation with playing Champions League games at Wembley because of the way Uefa advertising regulations ate into the already low capacity.Twelve years ago a bigger stadium with all the revenue it opens up seemed the only way for a club to improve its position in the financial hierarchy. Moving to the Emirates in 2006 was supposed to be Arsenal’s way of closing the economic gap on Manchester United and the European elite. But in 2003 Roman Abramovich arrived and revolutionised the finance landscape of English football.Abramovich was not the first sugar-daddy but he was the first with a wealth that, in the context of the time, seemed bottomless. All that careful husbandry, the plotting of a new investment, all diminished by an outside event that could not have been foreseen. It may seem normal now that foreign billionaires should buy Premier League clubs but it was not then. What Abramovich had begun, Sheikh Mansour continued.Still, better to have the new stadium than not to have it, which is why West Ham are moving, why Chelsea and Tottenham are redeveloping, why Liverpool are expanding Anfield and why Everton would like to move.Arsenal do benefit from it, clearly. , no club in the world makes more in matchday revenue than Arsenal, albeit still less than both broadcast and commercial streams.And that is where the timing has been cruel. Just as Arsenal have paid off enough of the debt on the stadium to hold on to their best players and to make a transfer splurge possible – however much Wenger still seems to oppose it on principle – broadcast revenues have increased to the point where stadium revenue seems, if not irrelevant, then certainly less significant than it was.The £5.1bn domestic television deal will ensure the club that finishes bottom of the Premier League next season picks up around £100m, with the top sides getting more than £150m. Add in £1.1bn per season in overseas rights to be divided and the £100m Arsenal make in matchday revenue is less important. It is not just the precise numbers; it is the scale. If everybody is very rich, being very, very rich is a comparatively small advantage, particularly in a world in which the A+ stars generally prefer to play in Spain.The project that was set in motion when Arsenal decided to move to the Emirates has been hit by two economic developments that could not realistically have been foreseen. That is not to say there are not things Arsenal and Wenger could have done better but equally the background is significant in considering how Wenger’s and Ranieri’s futures were not as they seemed likely to be a dozen years ago.</content>
<class_name>Arsenal,Finances,Business,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:59:36+0100</date>
<title>Arsenal caught out at the near post by oligarchs and TV billions</title>
<content>s they prepare to face West Ham on Saturday, players and staff alike at  may reflect on their last match before the international break and contemplate what might have been had Damien Delaney arched his back a little more. Leicester City were leading 1-0 at Selhurst Park and as the contest moved into second-half stoppage time, Scott Dann nodded a corner back across the area and towards his centre-back partner who, in a moment of uncharacteristic composure in front of goal, steadied the ball on his chest before volleying it through a crowd of defenders. Delaney thought it was in, as did the majority of those in attendance, only for the ball to crash off the bar.The final whistle blew shortly after wards and  to keep alive the most incredible of Premier League title surges. For Palace it was a 13th league fixture without victory and while a goal from  at the death would not have changed that, the home side undoubtedly would have got a boost from rescuing a point in such circumstances against the country’s leading team. As it is, they sit two places and seven points above the relegation zone and wondering when their slide will end.Palace were fifth on New Year’s Eve, four points behind Tottenham in fourth and fuelling hope among their supporters of European football arriving at Selhurst Park next season. Since the turn of the year, however, there has not been a single league win to savour and talk in that corner of south-east London has turned from the Champions League to the Championship. Relegation remains an outside bet yet it simply cannot be ruled out given Palace’s form. An upturn is required.It seems unlikely to come this weekend given that Palace’s opponents have lost only twice at Upton Park all season, sit one place and point off the top four and are generally playing with great conviction and quality. Alan Pardew’s men can take hope from their FA Cup run, with Palace reaching the semi-finals for the first time in 21 years after beating three  teams – Southampton, Stoke and, most impressively, Spurs at White Hart Lane. Yet given none of those victories led to the same outcome in the league fixture that followed immediately afterwards there is no reason to believe collectively they will have a positive effect on Palace now.According to Opta, Palace have the third lowest shot-conversion rate in the Premier League since the turn of the year (9.18), the fourth lowest shooting accuracy rate (36.73%), completed the third fewest amount of passes (2,973), conceded the joint highest amount of goals (24) and kept the fewest clean sheets (zero). There has been a drop off in every category since 1 January and while statistics do not tell you everything, they do tell you a lot. To put it bluntly, Palace have become worse in both boxes as well as the bit in the middle.“The main question us Palace fans are asking each other is ‘why are the team doing so well in the FA Cup but struggling in the league?’” says Jim Daly, host of the Five Year Plan podcast. “Injuries haven’t helped – Yannick Bolasie, James McArthur, Jason Puncheon and Connor Wickham have all been out and missed badly and the back-ups just haven’t been good enough, even though at the start of the season we were debating whether this was our best ever squad. It still might be, but to kick on and be a serious top-10 team it needs to get better”.Palace’s downturn has naturally drawn the spotlight on to Pardew. When the Eagles were soaring he was being spoken of as a future England manager; now they are struggling talk is focusing more on his reputation for being someone who oversees dramatic slumps in form. At Newcastle there was a spell of 14 defeats in 20 matches during the second half of the 2013-14 season that ended their hopes of qualifying for Europe, while at Charlton a reasonable start to the 2008-09 campaign came to a halt with a run of eight games without victory that rooted the south-east London club to the bottom of the Championship and cost Pardew his job.Prior to that, he was also sacked at West Ham after overseeing a run of 11 defeats in their first 17 fixtures of the 2006-07 season, the club’s worst string of results in more than 70 years and one that resulted in a team that had finished ninth and reached the FA Cup final the previous campaign suddenly fighting relegation.Some call it “The Pardew slide” and the inference is that this is a manager who becomes lost at sea once his teams hit a rough patch, specifically in regard to his tactical solutions. That has been evident at Palace and certainly against Leicester when the 54-year-old’s response to seeing his team trailing at half-time was to launch as many crosses as possible into the opposition area. The approach appeared desperate, as well as reducing Bolasie and Wilfried Zaha’s ability to cause problems with their pace and trickery from wide areas and negating Yohan Cabaye’s craft and guile in central midfield. The Frenchman has not been at his best this season but remains a potent playmaker if used correctly.The defeat to Leicester also showed just how drained of confidence Palace’s players have become and that leads to questions regarding Pardew’s ability to lift them. There has been no verbal abuse of an opposition manager or physical assault of an opposition player but that shortest of fuses is undoubtedly still there, seen most clearly in the way  to Liverpool’s  over Palace on 6 March and by the fact he dedicated a large portion of his programme notes for the visit of Claudio Ranieri’s men some 13 days later to the contentious penalty which earned the Merseysiders all three points. You could feel the fury dripping off the page.The same programme notes also contained a rather bizarre take on Leicester’s success, with Pardew speaking of how the “stars have aligned” to send them top and that if Palace had suffered as few injuries and won as many penalties they too could be looking down from the summit. The entire passage smacked of hubris on the part of someone who, by his own admission, is not short of self-belief and took the mind back to the time when one former Premier League manager claimed a little bit of success makes Pardew “dangerous”.In his defence, he is not the first manager to oversee slumps in form, lose his temper or give the impression that he never forgets to grin at a mirror before leaving the house, and it should not be forgotten that he took Palace from 17th to 10th having replaced Neil Warnock 14 months ago and, this season, has given the club real hope of reaching an FA Cup final for the first time since he scored .Not surprisingly, then, there is little suggestion of Pardew being in danger of losing his job, with Daly insisting it is only the “really negative fans” who want to see the back of their former midfielder. Yet the picture could change dramatically should the team’s slump deepen between now and facing Watford at Wembley on 24 April. In that time Palace also travel to Arsenal and Manchester United, as well as hosting Norwich and Everton. It is a daunting set of fixtures, with the visit of Alex Neil’s side on 9 April arguably the most crucial. A home defeat to a fellow struggler is simply unthinkable.“The people who know these sorts of things reckon Palace have a 5% chance of going down, and that’s probably because there are four worse teams then them in the league,” says Daly. “But older fans will recall 1993 when the Eagles thought they were all but safe on the penultimate weekend of the season and so did a lap of honour around Selhurst Park. They went down a week later.”</content>
<class_name>Crystal Palace,Alan Pardew,Premier League,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:30:05+0100</date>
<title>Crystal Palace in urgent need of league revival to stem the ‘Pardew slide’</title>
<content>t has been 11 years since a breakaway group of Manchester United supporters, weary of the commercialism and gluttony of the modern-day sport, and bitterly opposed to Malcolm Glazer’s takeover, , and all those people who viewed them with cold, suspicious eyes, from Sir Alex Ferguson down, probably realise now that movement is here to stay.Ferguson described  as “sad” and stomped out of a press conference when he was asked if he had any words about the team’s first promotion under the management of Karl Marginson, a fruit-and-vegetable delivery man. Ferguson, rising from his seat, had four: “Not interested, not interested.”Alan Gowling, a pundit on BBC Radio Manchester and former United forward, predicted the new club would not last until Christmas, a quote that is still celebrated on supporters’ T-shirts, and the idea of leaving one United for another will always divide opinion. You may recall the scene in Ken Loach’s film Looking for Eric when a supporter of each team is drinking in a pub and they become embroiled in a beery row about the rights and wrongs. “You can change your wife, your politics and your religion, but never your football team,” the United fan says. It is followed by a killer line from the bloke in the non-sponsored FC shirt. “They left me,” he says.Those arguments will probably continue until the year dot but they are used to it by now at Broadhurst Park, the £6.3m  with the most vibrant atmosphere outside the four professional leagues and an old-school sense of belonging. “Pies not Prawns” read one banner in the early days. It felt real, exciting, progressive – united, in the true sense of the word, and very different to the Old Trafford culture of noodle partners, global tie-ups, and a badge with the words “football club” lopped off.Yet this season has been a strange one for FC. They are 12th in the National League North, having climbed to the sixth tier of the football pyramid, and attracted a crowd of 4,150 for last Saturday’s game against Chorley. There were 10 matches in League One and League Two watched by fewer people over the Easter weekend and when FC have that kind of pulling power it is tempting to think Manchester will eventually have a third representative among the 92 professional clubs.And yet, behind the scenes, a club built on togetherness and shared principles has been undermined by the kind of infighting that could never have seemed imaginable. The general manager, Andy Walsh, announced last week he will stand down at the end of the season but that is only part of a story featuring legal action, resignations, protests, gagging orders and the overall feeling that FC are locked in an identity crisis.The Guardian has seen correspondence from Tim Worrall, one board member, where he sums up the seriousness of it all. “The current divisions and rifts within the club represent a real business risk and need addressing urgently,” he says.For Walsh, it is a galling way to end his time in charge. He has been an ambassador, spokesman and figurehead since the early days but, equally, there is no doubt it is ending bitterly. One former board member quit the club a couple of weeks ago in protest about the way it is being run. A current board member is considering his position, disillusioned by the direction in which the club has been heading and the split has led to an acrimonious dispute with John-Paul O’Neill, the man credited with setting up the club in 2005. O’Neill has persistently tried to tackle the board about what he sees as the abandonment of the club’s principles and has brought in lawyers because of alleged defamation.Others are challenging the position of Andy Walker, an ally of Walsh’s, who goes by the title of fundraiser and communications officer and has been described by Jonathan Kendal, formerly the chairman of the finance committee, as “greatly divisive”. A chant of “Walker out” was heard at the Chorley game and Kendal has emailed Worrall asking for an “urgent review” before a general meeting on 24 April. “The current divisions are extremely serious. It is a business risk for the club as a whole if the board do not examine the present divisive issues.”All of this is happening at the same time as an internet poll shows 84% of supporters saying they have no confidence in the board appointing the right person as Walsh’s successor. For a club that always prided itself on being such a tight network, there is discord behind the scenes and it has filtered down to all levels. The programme editor, Tony Howard, an FC stalwart, resigned because of his frustrations with the board last June. Others have stayed away as a protest, or are threatening to. “There is a fundamental deficit in democracy, transparency and accountability between the club and its members,” O’Neill says. “After battling to expose it for months I’m no longer angry about it, just profoundly sad.”It is a long, complex story, and not an easy subject to tackle when FC have been, and remain, a success story, frequently championed for their dedication to fans-owned clubs. Broadhurst Park has just been named the best new non-league stadium by the Football Grounds magazine, while Walsh and his colleagues have done an enormous amount of community work in the local Moston district. Walsh’s announcement about standing down referred to “a magnificent facility that I know our members are very proud of, and one that is the envy of many other clubs”. There have been four promotions in his time and he says he will remain involved in a different capacity.It is also clear, however, that the split has become increasingly vitriolic and unpleasant. “The measure of a democratic organisation is how differing views are expressed, the nature of debate marks its character,” he said in a statement to the Guardian. “Debate and respect for others has always been part of FC United. Abuse and bullying are damaging and have no place at FC United as they threaten the very foundations on which the club’s success has been built.”Others who are aligned to Walsh say the current position is “horrific” because of the level of criticism, the growing divisions and the overall charge that the club has moved away from what it used to stand for. When the club that once boasted of “punk football” recently put out a code of conduct for consultation, giving supporters a long list of do’s and don’t’s, the crowd held up a banner adapted from a Pink Floyd song – “We don’t need no code of conduct, we don’t need no fan control” – and questions were asked about the reaction if the Glazers had done the same at Old Trafford.Many members were also outraged that , the exchequer secretary to the Treasury, during the Conservative party conference, despite a policy not to be used for political promotion and it being only a few days after a sizeable number of supporters marched against government cuts.Like most clubs at their level, money is tight. FC are heavily reliant on fundraising and donations and have been running a £15,000 “Kit out the Cabin” appeal for the club’s academy players. Yet in February the board voted, 7-4, to hire Dave Boyle, formerly the chief executive at Supporters’ Direct, at a cost of £900 to look through the fans’ internet forums and report back on posts that could be described as harassment, unjustifiably abusive or potentially libellous from the previous nine months.The irony is that, relinquishing his position at Supporters’ Direct in 2011 because of a series of abusive messages on Twitter that prompted the Premier League to . As if that were not awkward enough, he has also allegedly posted highly offensive comments on the When Saturday Comes message board about supporters on about supporters from one FC forum.His appointment smacks of “absolute bare-faced hypocrisy,” according to a recent blog on A Fine Lung, a website featuring a number of Manchester-based writers who have become increasingly critical of the FC regime. “Without a hint of irony, one of the leading lights of the supporter-ownership movement was offered a hefty sum of a supporter-owned football club’s money to snoop on the internet activity of co-owners of that very club, once the poster boys and girls of the supporter-ownership movement. This at a time when the club is struggling financially to adjust to the stresses and strains of owning our own ground.”Boyle eventually pulled out, without being paid, and has told the Guardian it was a direct result of receiving a threatening anonymous phone call that he has reported to the police.As for Howard, the dispute that led to his resignation had its origins in the club putting on a one-off 50p increase on the price when they opened their new ground with . A small thing, you might think, but remember this is a club whose ethos was supposed to be against commercialism. Howard, a founder member, is said to have been “carpeted” when he made it clear he was against the increase and the people running the club have recommended Peter Thwaites, the voluntary HR official who puts contracts in place, inserts a confidentiality agreement for the new programme editor.“I have drawn up dozens of contracts for club employees,” Thwaites responded in a post to the members’ forum. “Not one of these included a confidentiality or gagging clause, nor was it ever suggested that such a restriction was necessary. So why is there suddenly a need to invoke one for the programme editor? What state secrets are they ever going to be party to? Margy’s team selections?”The post, subsequently deleted by the club’s moderators, added: “Let’s not kid ourselves here, this is nothing to do with confidentiality. This is the development of a systemic culture of secrecy, evasion and misrepresentation. Information is withheld, questions are not answered, restrictive codes of conduct are drawn up and attempts are made to stifle or silence criticism on the forums. Anyone who voices criticism of the way things are run is apparently viewed as an enemy of the club.”Everything is likely to come to a head at the general meeting on 24 April and it will be a sorry way to end what has otherwise been a momentous season in their new home. “Publicity seekers,” Ferguson called them. It was never true – and this is one story they would rather did not have to be told.</content>
<class_name>FC United of Manchester,Manchester United,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:11:04+0100</date>
<title>FC United of Manchester: how the togetherness turned into disharmony</title>
<content>ugene Cernan has felt the white heat of re-entry three times. “The landing,” says the astronaut, understandably animated by the memory, “is like being immersed in a sheet of fire, a comet, a shooting star.” Cernan, alongside crewmates Thomas Stafford and John Young, has also travelled faster than any human being in history: Apollo 10 at one point reached 24,791mph, earning it a mention in the Guinness Book of Records.Cernan is talking about , a new documentary that gives the naturally reticent astronaut, now 82, a chance to tell his story. The bare bones are thus: born in Chicago in 1934 to a Czech mother and Slovak father, he became a naval aviator before being selected by Nasa for astronaut training. He went on to pilot Gemini 9A in June 1966 and Apollo 10 in May 1969, before being selected as commander of Apollo 17, which carried out the most recent moon landing in December 1972. It was on this voyage that Cernan, the final astronaut to reboard the lunar module, became the 12th – and last – man to walk on the moon.He is, as Mark Craig’s film shows, a survivor of that great adventure: neither becoming capsized by it, as  was for a while, using alcohol; nor retreating from it, as the reclusive Neil Armstrong did. Like many astronauts, he retains a quiet authority, a military matter-of-factness that manifests itself in certain recurring phrases, not least: “We were there to do a job.”Occasionally, though, this reticence gives way to a sense of wonder. Some of the best moments in the documentary come when the still-dramatic images of Cernan’s missions are merged with his evocative reflections. “You can hear yourself breathe inside the suit,” he says of the long moments of stillness and expectation just before the launch of Apollo 10. “Everything intensifies – but the clock keeps going.”Cernan’s first words in The Last Man on the Moon are: “I am the luckiest human being in the world.” But as the film shows, he had his share of bad luck. His first spacewalk from Gemini 9, dogged by technical difficulties, was surely an inspiration for Gravity. Not given to overstatement, he later described it as “the spacewalk from hell”. And although he had successfully carried out more than 200 landings as a navy pilot, he crashed a helicopter in 1971, just two weeks before Apollo 14 was launched, a mission for which he had been chosen as back-up flight commander. He still has the helmet, most of which is charcoal black. “How can anyone do something so dumb?” he says, still angry with himself. Cernan thought he had “screwed up” his chance of ever being considered for another lunar mission, but a few weeks later he got a call saying: “The job’s still yours if you want it.” The following year, Cernan led the final mission.“The ground rumbled and all the fish jumped out of the lake,” remembers his then wife, Barbara, of the night launch of Apollo 17. She was one of 500,000 people who watched it from Kennedy  Center, in Florida, while people as far away as Miami – 225 miles south – saw a red streak in the sky. “It was my personal moment of reckoning,” says Cernan. “This is what I had asked for.”He and Harrison Schmitt spent three days on the moon’s surface. “People say, ‘What was it really like up there?’ Or they’ll ask, ‘Did you find God?’ What I remember was that I felt like I had shaped up.” Was he able to have a break and at least try to take in the wonder of it all? “Well, you couldn’t not. We saw some dazzling, extraordinary things, and you had to take time to appreciate them. I mean, not too many people get to see an Earth-rise.” He pauses for a long time. “When I was boarding the lunar module for the last time and I looked at my footprints, I knew I wouldn’t be coming back. That was the one moment when I wanted to stop time.”Unlike the first man to walk on the moon, the late Neil Armstrong, with whom he became friends, Cernan seems to have relished the celebrity the moon landing bestowed on him. He still makes public appearances. “I enjoy meeting people,” he tells me, his voice still strong. “I feel like I’m thanking them for that faith they had in me.”The documentary shows the human cost of that celebrity, however, particularly for his first wife, Barbara, who says: “If you think going to the moon is hard, try staying at home.” Their marriage did not survive. The Apollo astronauts were an elite group of alpha males, to which family often took second place. Bound by the discipline and dedication of their calling, but also by their shared sense of destiny, they developed egos to match. “We were so tunnel-vision about going to the moon,” says Cernan regretfully in the film, “that we never had time to get off that big white horse we were riding until it was too late. But sooner or later, you’ve got to come to grips with who you are and what’s important in life.” Cernan now seems to have done that. Does he keep in touch with his fellow astronauts? “Well, you don’t become best friends for the rest of your life in the way you might expect,” he says. “That was certainly not the case with my flights anyway.” But there is one thing he is clear about: “All I ever wanted to do was fly. For a long time, there was nothing else.”  is out now in the US and opens 8 April in the UK.</content>
<class_name>Documentary,The moon,Space,Nasa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:00:06+0100</date>
<title>The last man on the moon on crash-landings, losing his wife and watching an 'Earth-rise'</title>
<content>Rob Elliot was reduced to tears when he realised he would miss the chance to help Newcastle retain their Premier League status and a trip to the Euro 2016 finals.The 29-year-old goalkeeper was ruled out for “a number of months” when tests on Tyneside on Wednesday confirmed the diagnosis he had suffered anterior cruciate ligament damage during the .: “Sustaining the injury happened in a split-second. The ball was played across the goal and I moved across to get in line. I dived after the ball as I would do in any training session or any game but I felt pain straight away. Watching it back, I grabbed my knee before I’d even landed.“When I found out it was my cruciate ligament, that’s when the tears came. There was a wave of emotion, knowing I would miss the rest of the season with Newcastle and the Euros with Ireland. But you have to let that come, get past it and then look to be positive.”Elliot plans to speak to his former team-mates Ryan Taylor and Dan Gosling, who have recovered from similar injuries, as well as fellow goalkeeper Tim Krul, who is working his way back to fitness after rupturing his anterior cruciate ligament.Elliot is backing Newcastle’s third-choice goalkeeper, Karl Darlow, to get the job done as the club attempt to drag themselves back from the brink of relegation, starting with Saturday’s crucial trip to fellow strugglers Norwich.Elliot said: “He’s a great guy, he gets what Newcastle is all about and he works hard every day to get an opportunity like this. He deserves that roar from our fans like I had. I messaged him as soon as I knew about my injury because I wanted him to know and to be ready. I know how good a goalkeeper he is already and how good he is going to be.”Elliot, who tweeted his thanks to the Football Association of Ireland and Newcastle for the care they have given him and well-wishers for their support, was injured as he dived in vain in an attempt to keep out Miroslav Stoch’s opener 14 minutes into his second start for Ireland. Martin O’Neill had handed him a chance to stake his claim for the No1 spot at Euro 2016.That role is likely to go to either 39-year-old Shay Given, who could get his chance with Stoke after his recovery from a knee problem with Jack Butland facing a lengthy spell on the sidelines, or the man who finished the qualifying campaign in possession, West Ham’s Darren Randolph.Randolph, who has known Elliot since they were trainees at Charlton, was among the first to offer his best wishes to his compatriot.He said: “I’ve known him since we were 15 and I know him quite well. I don’t want to see that happen to anybody, at any stage, let alone Rob. He’s been on fire. There’s never a good time for that to happen but it’s the worst possible time for it to happen to him now.”There was sympathy too from the defender John O’Shea, who accompanied Elliot, wearing a knee brace and using crutches for support, on his flight back to the north-east from Dublin.The Sunderland captain said: “It’s a big blow for Robbie. I flew over with him on the plane from Newcastle, so I could see how much he was looking forward to coming over and showing what he could do. With the season he was having, he was keen to keep that momentum going, but unfortunately that’s football. It could happen in training but it just happened in the game.”</content>
<class_name>Newcastle United,Republic of Ireland,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:08:23+0100</date>
<title>Newcastle and Republic of Ireland goalkeeper Rob Elliot faces six months out</title>
<content>An  protest group has expressed its sympathy for the departed manager, Rémi Garde, and blamed the club’s owner, Randy Lerner, for the club’s current predicament.The group behind ‘Out The Door On 74’, which encouraged Villa supporters to vote with their feet and leave the last two home matches after 74 minutes - symbolic of the club’s formation in 1874 - in protest at the years of decline under Lerner, thinks the American should now go.Garde, , had been left disillusioned by a lack of backing in the January transfer window having failed to land any new signings and the group described the Frenchman as a “sacrificial lamb”.The group said in a statement: “Two wins in 20 is always going to leave a manager open to valid criticism regardless of the circumstances and his sacking has been inevitable for a while, whether now or in the summer.“Yet, why is it that we find our sympathies turning towards a manager who has undoubtedly failed in his remit?“He was hung out to dry by Mr Lerner and his sorry band of fools. The January window slammed shut on 2 February with zero investment provided, not a single player joined a squad that had finally shown some mettle but was still woefully short of both consistent quality and numbers.“Whatever promises had been made to the manager, whatever token efforts were made, he was positioned as the sacrificial lamb and he has been slaughtered for it. The fight visibly drained from him and for Aston Villa our failure to bolster a fatally flawed squad was the final nail in the coffin.“How many more times must we cycle through managers, players and board members before Mr Lerner finds the winning combination? In our view he has had long enough.“The Aston Villa job is a poisoned chalice because of one man’s inability to provide either consistent support, vision or in Rémi Garde’s case, simply be true to his word. Randy Lerner, bow your head once again in shame.”The ‘Out The Door On 74’ campaign is set to continue when Villa resume  action at home to Chelsea on Saturday.Villa,  and 12 points from safety, are now looking for their third manager of the season. The former Leicester manage , previously of Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad, have emerged as early favourites with bookmakers.</content>
<class_name>Aston Villa,Premier League,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T22:06:41+0100</date>
<title>Aston Villa protest group blames Randy Lerner for Rémi Garde’s failures</title>
<content> do not expect to announce a managerial replacement for Rémi Garde before the end of the week. The assistant coach Eric Black will attend tomorrow’s press conference before taking training at Bodymoor.The former Lyon manager Garde  after five months in the job, with Villa 12 points from safety at the foot of the Premier League with seven games remaining. The first of those is Saturday’s early kick-off at home against Chelsea, for which Black will remain in charge.Villa are believed to want a British manager with Premier League experience but are realistic about the attractiveness of their vacancy when relegation is a virtual certainty.Nigel Pearson and David Moyes are in the frame and available, though the club recognise an incoming manager’s preference may be to take over in summer, even if that means picking up the pieces and starting afresh in the Championship.Other available candidates include Garry Monk and Brendan Rodgers, though Hull’s Steve Bruce and Mark Warburton of Rangers are also among names being quoted by bookmakers. Villa accept that anyone presently in charge of a club would be unapproachable until the close season in any case, and privately seem ready to admit it might be too late to appoint a manager on the basis of availability and expect him to guide the club to safety.</content>
<class_name>Aston Villa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:19:33+0100</date>
<title>Aston Villa’s hunt for Rémi Garde successor may take some time</title>
<content>Henrikh Mkhitaryan is a summer transfer target for Arsenal. They have sent scouts to watch the  attacking midfielder and have further monitored his progress via video clips.The 27-year-old, who was close to joining Liverpool and also Tottenham Hotspur during his time at Shakhtar Donetsk, is under contract at Dortmund until the summer of 2017 and the Bundesliga club are trying to get him to agree to fresh terms.The Armenia international is torn between renewing at Dortmund – for whom he signed in 2013 from Shakhtar for £23.5m – and considering a move to the Emirates Stadium. He would have no shortage of other offers from clubs across Europe.Mkhitaryan caught the eye for Dortmund against  in the Champions League meetings between the clubs in the previous two seasons and he has been an outstanding performer in Europe and the Bundesliga, particularly this season, when he has scored 20 goals in all competitions. Quick, technically gifted and clinical, he can play in any position across the line behind the striker. is likely to lose Mikel Arteta, Mathieu Flamini and Tomas Rosicky from his midfield in the summer. All three are out of contract and not expected to be given new deals, with age and injury problems having caught up with them while there is uncertainly over Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s future at the club. last January and the midfielder has made a positive start but there will be room for the Arsenal manager to make further additions in the department.As well as Mkhitaryan, Wenger wants Granit Xhaka, the Borussia Mönchengladbach holding midfielder. The 23-year-old, who has an imposing physical presence plus skill and intelligent reading of the game, will carry Switzerland’s hopes at the European Championship in the summer.Vladimir Petkovic dropped Gökhan Inler, the experienced Leicester City midfielder, for the recent international friendlies, partly because he believes Xhaka can be the leader of his Swiss team.Wenger is also interested in , who can play further forward at left midfield, too. Arsenal have made repeated scouting checks on the pacy 22-year-old Portugal international and, were he to sign, Wenger could listen to offers for Kieran Gibbs.</content>
<class_name>Arsenal,Borussia Dortmund,Arsène Wenger,Transfer window,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T20:17:55+0100</date>
<title>Arsenal track Dortmund’s Henrikh Mkhitaryan in bid to rebuild midfield</title>
<content>Michael Jordan has retained his place at the top of Forbes’ list of the highest-paid retired athletes.The former basketball star, who stopped playing in 2003, earned $110m last year (£76.5m), according to , with his earnings mostly attributable to the success of Nike’s Jordan brand.Second on the list and up a place from 2015 is , whose various endorsements earned $65m (£45.2m). Arnold Palmer (golf, $40m), Junior Bridgeman (basketball, $32m) and Jerry Richardson (American football, $30m) make up the top five.Forbes’ third annual look at the highest-paid retired athletes includes estimated income from salaries, endorsements, licensing, speaking and appearances, golf course design, book deals and partner distributions during the year.Forbes.com estimates the top 14 former athletes earned $449m (£312m) cumulatively between them, and they played six different sports with ages that range from 34 to 86.Among notable names on the list are Pelé, who retired in 1977 but still raked in $14m (£9.7m) in 2015. Li Na is the only female athlete in the top 14, with China’s former tennis player also earning $14m.</content>
<class_name>David Beckham,Basketball,US sports,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:08:15+0100</date>
<title>David Beckham up to second on retired rich list behind Michael Jordan</title>
<content> says Leicester City have been “the best team without question” in the Premier League this season and would be worthy winners of the title.The former Manchester United manager, who won 13 league titles in a 26-year career with the club, added that the East Midlands side’s central-defensive partnership is key to their success.In an , Ferguson said: “They’ve got the experience of [Robert] Huth and [Wes] Morgan at the back. They know how to head the ball clear, they know how to tackle – they know how to defend.”Leicester currently have a five-point lead over Tottenham, which could be cut to two if Spurs beat Liverpool in the late game on Saturday. Yet despite the north London side’s strong form, Ferguson believes the Foxes will hold them at bay despite having been heavily backed for relegation after  to succeed Nigel Pearson last summer.“I can only see Tottenham being the danger to them,” Ferguson added. “At the moment they’re playing some of the best football I’ve seen from any Tottenham team for many, many years. But Leicester have got the edge, they’ve got that togetherness. The consistency has been there all season. Leicester have got the bit between their teeth, they’ve been the best team without question throughout the season and they deserve to win it.”</content>
<class_name>Leicester City,Sir Alex Ferguson,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:16:57+0100</date>
<title>Sir Alex Ferguson: Leicester are the best team and deserve to win title</title>
<content>Crystal Palace have lost one of their “smallest fans” following , the club’s manager Alan Pardew said.Pardew paid tribute to Corbett at his weekly press conference following the comedian’s death at the age of 85.“We’ve lost one of our smallest fans,” the 54-year-old said. “It’s a sad day. He contributed so much to light entertainment in Britain. When I was growing up, him and Ronnie Barker had us in stitches with four candles.”Corbett, who had said he was “very interested” in football, attended matches for many years at Selhurst Park, the nearest Premier League ground to his Croydon home.He was also a fan of Hearts in Edinburgh, where he was born.The Scottish club : “The club is saddened to hear of the passing of Ronnie Corbett. Thoughts are with his family and friends at this sad time #JamboForever”Pardew added: “Such a shame for his family and as a representative of the club. We hope they are bearing up and we send our love to them.”Pardew also lamented that he had never had the honour of meeting Corbett, who adopted Palace as his English team despite his Scottish origins.</content>
<class_name>Alan Pardew,Ronnie Corbett,Crystal Palace,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:53:54+0100</date>
<title>Alan Pardew salutes Ronnie Corbett: ‘one of Crystal Palace’s smallest fans’</title>
<content>James Milner believes England must learn to adapt when they face opponents who sit off them after shortcomings in possession were exposed by  on Tuesday.The captain for the night admitted the failure to move the ball quickly enough contributed to a  who have not qualified for Euro 2016, and his comments were backed up by Daley Blind’s warning that England are likely to be confronted by sides attempting to stifle them this summer. The Dutch captain praised their opponents’ attacking options but felt his team were comfortable.The verve and fearlessness evident three days earlier in England’s stirring victory over Germany in Berlin were sorely lacking. Blind revealed that Holland were happy to concede possession, leaving less space behind their defence, and Roy Hodgson’s side looked uncertain when the onus was on them to seize the initiative.“Maybe it is a reality check,” Milner said. “We have shown we can beat anyone by beating the world champions but also that we need to be more consistent game-in and game-out. You need that in a tournament – you can’t play one game and have a game off.“We probably didn’t play with the intensity of the other day. We had more of the ball and I think sometimes it comes from us not moving it quickly enough. When the other team has the ball sometimes it is easier to start quicker and get in the faces and press and that gets the intensity into the game. When we have the ball it is down to us to get the intensity into the game and we didn’t do that.”In England’s defence Hodgson selected an experimental side. The Tottenham trio of Dele Alli, Eric Dier and Harry Kane were rested along with Liverpool’s Jordan Henderson and  did take the lead with a fine team goal, Jamie Vardy finishing off a flowing move.“It would have been good to back up the result [in Germany],” Milner added. “But on the other hand we have probably learnt more than we did in the game on Saturday – the reality of international football, not taking your chances, not playing at a high enough tempo and then at the other end not getting a couple of decisions and being punished.“We will learn a lot from tonight and it shows us all as a group moving forward that we will hopefully learn those lessons and show the consistency you need if you’re going to do well in a tournament.”Blind argued that Holland restricted England to few clear opportunities. “We played more on the counterattack,” the Manchester United player said. “I think against an opponent like England, with a lot of quality, it was more that type of game for us.“I think we played really compact and with a lot of discipline and I think after the goal they didn’t create a lot of chances. Most of the time it was shots outside the box and we are prepared for that. We did well and we played on the counter and scored two goals.“Today’s football, you look to the opponent and we know that England is a bit further than us at the moment. You have to adapt and it’s not the typical Dutch style because we want to play but we did well, really disciplined and fighting for every ball.”England’s group opponents at Euro 2016, Russia, Slovakia and Wales, will surely take note. “It’s definitely a challenge because I think a lot of countries will say that England is a stronger team and they have a lot of quality in the team,” Blind said. “But I think England have enough quality to score goals. They have a lot of goalscorers, so I don’t think they have to worry.”</content>
<class_name>England,Holland,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T22:54:14+0100</date>
<title>England learned more from Holland loss than Germany win, says James Milner</title>
<content>he first thing to know about Nintendo’s  is that it isn’t a game. Not really.The way the company is describing its long-awaited mobile release is “an app from  that brings out a side of you your friends have never seen before”. So Miitomo isn’t competing directly against Clash Royale, Game of War and Candy Crush Saga.It’s hard to say what it  competing against though: it sits somewhere between Snapchat, Bitstrips (which Snapchat has just bought) and any social app using emoji and digital stickers.Miitomo was released in Japan earlier in March, notching up . Now it has launched in  – including the UK, Ireland US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and various European countries – as a free download for iOS and Android devices.At its centre are the Mii avatars that will be familiar to anyone who’s owned a device from Nintendo’s Wii and DS families in recent years.The app gets you to create a Mii character – including using your smartphone’s camera if you want it to look like you – and tweaking how it moves and speaks, before sending it off as a “social go-between” for you and your friends. They’re nosy little so-and-sos: asking questions about what you’ve been doing recently to kick conversations off.It’s like a chatbot within a traditional messaging app and is impressively on-trend, given that Microsoft has just announced that “bots are the new apps”. Although thankfully the Miis appear to be . For now.Kitting your Mii out with virtual clobber is a big part of Miitomo: there’s an in-app shop selling virtual clothes, which you pay for with virtual coins – either earning them from your use of the app, or by spending real money on them.Coins are sold in quantities of between 1,000 for £0.79 and 105,000 for £54.99. From 250-coin shoes to 6,400-coin robot outfits, there seem to be plenty of items to choose from.You’ll also need coins to play the gaming bit of Miitomo: a built-in mini-game called Miitomo Drop, which involves dropping your character into a Peggle-y pinball-y environment to win prizes, including virtual clothes that aren’t available in the shop.It’s less a game and more a daily draw with bells on: a mildly diverting means to an end – more items. You’ll get much more amusement from the other major feature of the app, which is called Miifoto.This is a photo-editing tool where you can insert Miis (your own and those of your friends) into photographs, adding in other stickers, text and backgrounds. It’s a lot of fun, and you can expect to see plenty of Miifotos appearing on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram in the coming weeks if you move in Nintendophile circles. That’s the main appeal or drawback of Miitomo: ultimately it will only be as fun as the number of friends you have using it too.I’d say it’s aimed at two groups of people (who may crossover) – teenagers and people who love Nintendo. The former may be hard to attract away from the holy SoMo trinity of Snapchat, Instagram and WhatsApp, so that leaves the latter group. show it has sold 12.6m Wii U consoles and 57.9m 3DS handhelds, not to mention the 101.6m Wiis that introduce the Mii avatars in the first place, so there’s definitely an audience for Miitomo – many of which will own smartphones.The younger members of that audience may be ruled out: my six and eight year-old sons would love Miitomo but its social and data-collecting aspects mean Nintendo has placed a minimum age limit of 13 on the app. That said, ask all the 11- and 12-year-olds on Snapchat, Instagram etc what they think of age limits...If you’re old enough, if you love Nintendo enough and if you have enough friends who fall into both categories, Miitomo is an inventive and fun, first mobile app for the company. Everyone else? The wait will continue for Nintendo to make some more ambitious mobile games based on its most-loved brands.The location-based , with the hope that Nintendo and its mobile partners are already dreaming up amazing games that take full advantage of smartphones and tablets – while avoiding the most over-aggressive approaches to the “freemium” models that dominate on these devices.</content>
<class_name>Nintendo,Apps,iPhone,Android,Smartphones,Games,Social media,Social networking,Photography,Digital media,Mobile phones,Software,Mobile,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:53:42+0100</date>
<title>Miitomo first look review – is Nintendo's mobile app any good?</title>
<content>Click to enlarge and debate the strip below the line.There’s not a lot you can do. The home side may think they’re doing the noble thing - but their actions have skewed the competition and will result in another team being unfairly relegated, if the authorities allow the result to stand. All you can do at the end is inform officials from both sides that you will be reporting the conduct of the players involved. Disgraceful refereeing. You can only apologise for restarting play too soon, and award a retake. Also caution the player who was subbed if you feel he was deliberately trying to delay the restart by walking off slowly. What an embarrassing moment. . You can’t stop him if he really wants to do this, but you shouldn’t condone it. Technically the 11th player named on the teamsheet can come on at a stoppage in the 11th minute, and his team will still have three subs to use - but it makes a mockery of the game. Tell the manager that if he starts with ten men you will report him. For a chance to  send us your questions to . The best scenario used in each new strip wins a T-shirt; Terms apply. For more on You are the Ref’s history, .</content>
<class_name>Laws of football,Leicester City,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T09:30:13+0000</date>
<title>You are the Ref No366: N'Golo Kanté</title>
<content>Back in 2007, baseball man and  Alex Rodriguez announced his intention to leave the New York Yankees one October evening. This didn’t go down well at all, as at the time the Boston Red Sox, the Yankees’ despised rivals, were just about to win the World Series, and Rodriguez was accused of trying to take the attention away from the imminent champs, and direct it towards himself, like a clattering great egotist.Maybe that’s what Aston Villa were trying to do on Tuesday evening, when they announced that Rémi Garde  on Air Do One  (which means they won’t now win Euro 2016). Perhaps they were just trying to get a bit of acknowledgement, some small glory. Maybe they were attempting to take the attention away from the national team and on to them, to sate their clear famelust. Or something like that.Garde is gone, and it was the kindest thing to do. There can rarely have ever been someone who looked more miserable in their job than him, aside from perhaps the Fiver when the Man asks us to type some words and put our trousers back on. Of course Garde was no good, having won only two league games in his five months in charge, but he did always carry with him the air of a man who had been sold a charming rustic property as a “fixer-upper”, only to discover it wasn’t actually a house, but a drawing of a bedsit, by a five-year-old, on an old brown paper bag. Week after week, defeat after defeat, , that the players were no good and the blokes who signed the cheques and sent the faxes had lost their pens and, erm, faxing fingers.He was indeed sold something of a pup. This was a club who in the summer lost their three best players, replacing them with a job-lot of Jordans, Rudy Gestede the colossal lumbering tree, and Joleon Lescott, a bloke with apparently so little control of his actions that he tweeted a picture of a car . All of which wouldn’t be quite so much of a problem if there hadn’t been such a chronic lack of investment in the squad and indeed club as a whole for some years. Buying those players last summer was a little like trying to fix a series of holes in the hull of an oil tanker with a packet of Mickey Mouse plasters.But even with that in mind, Garde was terrible and it would be a cop-out to suggest otherwise, showing about as much tactical acumen as predecessor Tactics Tim showed … erm … tactical acumen, all the motivational skills of a snotty tissue and an approach to team selection akin to an eight-year-old playing free jazz on the xylophone.Garde joins the long line of former Aston Villa managers who have tumbled into obscurity and nothingness since leaving the club: David O’Leary is unemployed; Alex McLeish is managing Zamalek in Egypt; Tactics Tim has probably opened a Pretty Green franchise somewhere; Martin O’Neill is with the Republic of Ireland. It doesn’t say much for his future job prospects.And to think, at one point Garde was talked about as a potential Arsenal manager, largely on the basis that he was mates with Arsène Wenger. In fact, he might well not be talking to Arsène anymore, having consulted with his old boss about the Villa gig, to be told that it’d be a lovely idea. The lesson here is never take any advice from your mates. They don’t know what they’re talking about.But hey, let’s look on the bright side. . And at least Villa  when they .“Whose shoes do you want to sell, Messi? How much do you think it will get? You don’t know that the nail of a baby Egyptian is worth more than your shoes? Keep your shoes to yourself … Messi, we Egyptians are 90 million people, who have pride, we have shoes. We don’t eat off the money of other peoples’ shoes. I would have understood if he donated his Barcelona uniform to the Egyptians, it’s accepted. But just the shoes? It’s humiliating to all Egyptians and I do not accept this humiliation. Egyptians may not find food, but they have pride. We Egyptians have never been humiliated before during our 7,000 years of civilisation” – Egyptian MP Said Hasasin  in aid of an Egyptian charity as well as can be expected.“We do not believe that the fans mean it in that way, they come to have fun and nothing more. Nevertheless, we do think there are better ways of expressing enthusiasm and even messing with the opponent to put pressure on him” – Not that the Mexican Soccer Federation reckon their fans are really chanting anti-gay songs, of course, but on the whole they’d rather supporters ‘messed with’ the opposition in a slightly less homophobic way.“David Lambert writes about doubling the Fiver’s readership by the addition of a further 1,058 pedants []. Surely the logical flaw in that line of reasoning is that it assumes that all of the current readers are pedants … Oh” – Steve Allen. “I once wrote a letter to Pedants Corner in Private Eye pointing out to some other pedant that actually it was entirely possible for Batman and Spiderman to appear in the same comic strip because there have been crossovers between DC and Marvel down the years. Two weeks later someone wrote in to point out that I was a fool and I should know that actually it is ‘Spider-Man’. And now . To quote John McClain ‘How can the same sh1t happen to the same guy twice?’. (I’ll probably get corrected on that quote now too …)” – Sam Carpenter.“Re Eric Penner’s enjoyment of a ‘completely humourless’ edition of the Fiver - welcome, Eric, you’re clearly a new subscriber” – John D’Arcy.“I think I know why Raheem is struggling to sell that house [] … the first floor is obviously unsafe, ” – Dave Gill. Send your letters to . And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also . Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love,  of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope.Manchester City defender Martín Demichelis has been charged by FA bizzies with .Like pretty much everyone at the fag end of an international break, Danny Drinkwater  as soon as possible. “I am just going to get back in with the lads and pick up where we left off, get another victory on Sunday and see how the run goes,” he jinxed. Meanwhile Jamie Vardy says competition for an England starting role is so intense he might raise his game an infinitesimal amount to stay in the side. “It’s massive competition and that means everyone will be trying that extra 1% or 2%,” he shrugged.And Brondby president Jan Bech Andersen after being discovered masquerading online as someone called Oscar and slagging off former manager Thomas Frank, who walked out weeks ago . “Due to the large media focus on me in the last few weeks, I have decided that it is best for the club that I do not seek re-election to the board,” sniffed Bech Andersen.Rob Smyth and John Ashdown spent a week in Big Paper’s dusty basement cranking stats through the Whizzo Hot Stats Statometer (™) to work out whether Barcelona are about to break the record for longest unbeaten run. .If you thought Rémi Garde was pretty forgettable, , hoots Simon Burnton.Then again, reckons Paul Wilson, .Martin Laurence on .Oh, and if it’s your thing … .</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T16:16:11+0100</date>
<title>It was the kindest thing to do</title>
<content>t’s still two days before the Premier League returns but Liverpool have already been beaten by  this week. The Reds need a new goalkeeper and had their hearts set on Barcelona’s Marc-André ter Stegen but the former Borussia Mönchengladbach stopper has other ideas.The  No2 will spend the summer as the Germany No2 before heading to Manchester to become City’s No2, with Pep Guardiola’s presence enough to swing the deal City’s way. He’ll cost around £20m.And speaking of City, Manuel Pellegrini should not be out of work for too long when he departs the Etihad in the summer. Having seen just how successful a Manchester stalwart can be at the Mestalla, Valencia want the Chilean to replace the departed Gary Neville in the close season.Pellegrini would seem to be the favourite, though there are some suggestions that Valencia are trying to persuade José Mourinho to forget about Old Trafford and instead return to Spain. That would send the usually so well-oiled and efficient Manchester United transfer machine into a bit of a spin as they’ve already lined up some Mourinho-esque signings – Internazionale’s Colombian centre-back Jeison Murillo, a snip at £14m, and Benfica’s Renato Sanches, who would put more of a dent in the bank balance at £50m.Away from the north-west, we head to the only other place the Mill seems to find any tittle-tattle about these days – London. Specifically north London, where Tottenham want the Mainz midfielder Yunus Malli. The Turkey international would cost around £10m.Though that deal may be straightforward, Spurs face a derby duel over Schalke’s Roman Neustädter, with Arsenal also sniffing around the midfielder. It’ll be a busy summer for the Gunners – not only do they want , they’re also keen on Real Madrid’s Toni Kroos and Southampton’s Victor Wanyama.And finally West Ham are on the verge of landing 18-year-old striker Toni Martínez from Valencia for a cut-price £750,000.</content>
<class_name>Liverpool,Manchester City,Barcelona,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:57:11+0100</date>
<title>Football transfer rumours: Marc-André ter Stegen to Manchester City?</title>
<content>The United States failed to qualify for consecutive Olympic men’s soccer tournaments for the first time in a half century, a collapse players found hard to address or analyze.Roger Martinez scored twice, Americans Luis Gil and Matt Miazga were ejected and Colombia’s under-23 team defeated the US 2-1 Tuesday night to earn the last berth in the Rio de Janeiro Games with a 3-2 aggregate win in the two-leg, total-goals series.Following a nightmare in Nashville four years ago, when the Americans were eliminated by El Salvador, they had a fiasco in Frisco.“You dream about it since you were a little kid,” forward Jordan Morris said, “so, it’s a tough one to swallow.”Coach Andi Herzog said it wasn’t the right time for him to dissect the Americans’ poor performance.“I’m real emotional, and I don’t want to say anything without coming down a bit,” Herzog said. “I’m really disappointed.”Martinez redirected Andres Roa’s off-target shot past goalkeeper Ethan Horvath in the 30th minute. An own goal by Delver Machado tied the score in the 59th, with the defender heading the ball over his own keeper while trying to clear Morris’ pass from Emerson Hyndman.Martinez put the Colombians back ahead in the 64th minute, eluding Tim Parker at the 6-yard box and beating Horvath. At that point, because the first tiebreaker is away goals, the Americans needed to score twice.“We give up such a simple, stupid goal,” Herzog said.The US then showed its frustration. Gil, who scored in the first leg, entered in the 67th minute and was given a yellow card by Uzbek referee Ravshan Irmatov in the 77th for fouling Wilmer Barrios near midfield. Gil dissented and was shown a red.Miazga received a red in the 90th minute for fouling Christian Borga just outside the penalty area on a clear goal-scoring opportunity.The US had last failed to qualify for consecutive Olympics from 1960-68. Colombia will make its first appearance since 1992.US national team coach Jurgen Klinsmann said the 2012 group of under-23 players was set back by its failure to play at the London Olympics and he made qualifying for Brazil a priority, installing top assistant Herzog as under-23 coach.But the Americans were forced into the playoff by losing to Honduras 2-0 last October in the semifinal round of the regional qualifying in North and Central America and the Caribbean.Before a crowd of 7,998, the Americans were outshot 11-5, including 6-0 in shots on target, increasing Colombia’s advantage to 29-10 and 12-1 over the two legs.Herzog made two changes to his starting lineup, inserting midfielder Paul Arriola in place of Gil and for Desevio Payne started instead of Eric Miller.Horvath was back in goal. He left the first leg late in the first half after colliding with Colombia’s Andres Renteria just outside the penalty area.The Americans’ defeat prevented a sweep for the US men’s program Tuesday. The national team beat Guatemala 4-0 in a World Cup qualifier at Columbus, Ohio.This game resembled the loss to Honduras. The Americans were outmuscled once again.“When a team played real physical against us, we didn’t have any power, any assertiveness up front,” Herzog said. “That’s disappointing.”</content>
<class_name>USA,Olympic Games 2016,Olympic Games,US sports,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T06:32:39+0100</date>
<title>USA fail to qualify for consecutive Olympics for first time in 48 years</title>
<content> writes Mandy Williams.  Since then their record is undeniably competent: P39 W30 D9 L0 F122 A23. Some you win, some you draw. They are closing in on the catchily entitled ‘longest unbeaten run in all competitions by a team that plays in one of Europe’s big five leagues’, but the world record is still a fair bit away.First things first. If we count the big five leagues as England, Italy, Germany, Spain and France, as most do, the record belongs to Juventus. They were unbeaten in 43 matches between May 2011 and May 2012. The catalyst was Luigi Delneri, their coach for the first of those 43 games. Antonio Conte then took over and grabbed all the glory by ensuring they lost none of the next 42 either. There is a small asterisk against their achievement: all the games were in Serie A and the Coppa Italia, due to their failure to qualify for Europe in 2011-12.The record for a side who did play in Europe – of those in the big five leagues – belongs to Fabio Capello’s Milan. They were unbeaten for 42 matches between April 1992 and March 1993. Milan also went 36 matches without defeat between May 1991 and April 1992 (although, like Juventus two decades later, they did not play in Europe in that period).Milan were managed by Arrigo Sacchi in the first of those games, at the back end of the 1990-91 season. That means the 1-0 defeat to Juventus in the Coppa Italia semi-final second leg on 14 April 1992 was the only time Milan lost in their first 78 games under Capello’s management. Couldn’t do it with England though, could he?The record for an English team belongs, of course, to Brian Clough’s miracle-workers of Nottingham. His Forest side went 40 matches without defeat between March and December 1978, when Liverpool – whose European Cup reign Forest had ended earlier in the season – gave them a revenge tousing at Anfield.There are some Manchester United fans who will tell you they were unbeaten for 45 matches from December 1998 to October 1999, because their only defeats in that time were in the glorified friendlies that are the Community Shield and European Super Cup. We simply can’t be bothered to argue this one, but if you do count those matches as competitive – as the majority of statisticians do – then United’s unbeaten run in all competitions stretched to 33 games, the last of which came on Clive Tyldesley Day in .The longest unbeaten run managed by Arsenal’s Invincibles was 21 matches, from April to October 2004, though the forgotten 2007 side managed a club-record 28 games. And Steaua Bucharest, who set a European record by going 104 matches without losing a league match between 1986 and 1989, peaked at 29 games unbeaten in all competitions. Dinamo Zagreb did not experience the misery of defeat in 45 contests during 2014 and 2015, before Bayern Munich gave them an intravenous injection of reality with a 5-0 Champions League thrashing. That’s the longest unbeaten run by a European team that our research turned up, although we cannot lie to you: we have not pored through every single result in the history of football in Europe.Nor we could find precise data for the Cote D’Ivoire Cup of 1990, and therefore we cannot say with absolute certainly how long ASEC Mimosas –  – were unbeaten in all competitions. Their website claims it was 52 games, however, so let’s go with that.Especially as they are not claiming a record. Santos, of Brazil, and Penarol, of Uruguay, were both unbeaten for 54 games in the 1960s – a joint record, or so it was reported, that was broken by Egypt’s Al-Ahly in 2004 and 2005. Their 55th match without defeat occurred just before they arrived proudly in Japan for the World Club Championship. And then they went and spoiled it all by losing to Al Ittihad and Sydney FC. We might be wrong about this, because somebody at school nicked our Scottish Football Annual 1917, but we have a strong suspicion Celtic were unbeaten for 62 matches in all competitions from November 1915 to April 1917. In this instance, all competitions meant only one competition, the Scottish Football League (the Scottish Cup was put on hold because of some squabble over Franz Ferdinand), though that still counts.Celtic  Al-Ahly  Santos , Penarol ASEC Mimosas Dinamo ZagrebJuventus Milan Nottingham Forest  Milan Real Madrid Manchester United  wrote Edd H last week. “Steve Baines had a 17-year career in the Football League, making almost 450 appearances for Nottingham Forest, Huddersfield, Bradford, Walsall, Bury, Scunthorpe and Chesterfield,” writes Tom Lines. “After retiring he took up refereeing and spent eight seasons on the Football League list from 1995 to 2003. During this time he took charge of games involving all of his former teams except Forest and Chesterfield (the latter because match officials are not allowed to take charge of games in the towns in which they live).“Baines stepped down when he reached the League’s compulsory retirement age of 50, but not before penning  in which he hoped more players will follow in his footsteps. It hasn’t happened yet but there may still be time. Current Doncaster captain Andy Butler is a qualified referee and has spoken openly about .”And here’s Alan Rhodes: “Current Scottish Grade One referee Barry Cook played on seven occasions in goal for . Fast forward to 2011-12 and he takes charge of a Queen’s Park v Clyde game, Queen’s Park winning 2-0.“However, in the seven times he played for us, we lost only once, whilst he has now refereed us on 10 occasions and we have lost five of them.”For more on the (very small pool) of players turned referees, check out this piece from the Knowledge archive:writes Giovanni Pisoni.We :“The longest odds for a single result would either have been when the USA beat England 1-0 in 1950, or when Hungary beat England 6-3 at Wembley in 1953,” explains Graham Sharpe, from William Hill. “Both were 500-1 shots.” Ed Pownall, from Blue Square, can match that, with his firm offering 500s, albeit with in-running prices, on Manchester City’s remarkable FA Cup fourth-round replay win at Tottenham back in 2004. Spurs led 3-0, but City - with 10 men - stormed back to win 4-3.But Betfair can trump all of these, courtesy of their betting exchanges. Back in January, Internazionale trailed Sampdoria 2-0 with two minutes left of their Serie A clash. “With maximum odds of 1000 against (the equivalent of 999-1) available, the price was snapped up by a Berkshire man,” says company spokesman, Tony Calvin. “Then Obafami Martins scored in the 88th minute, before Christian Vieri and Alvaro Recoba won the game for Inter in injury-time. The punter had scooped almost a grand for his £1 staked. Our previous high was ‘only’ a winning bet at 550 (549-1) on the draw, when a Cameroon side came back from 5-0 down to finish 5-5 against Portugal at the U17 World Championships in 2003.”There are even more extreme occurrences, in betting terms at least, although they are rather more dubious. One was last season’s Uefa Cup encounter between , where heavy betting on the Greeks to trail 1-0 at half-time yet win 5-2 after 90 minutes amazingly proved successful. Finnish layers Veikkaus also saw the 8,787-1 they were offering on Haka Valkeakoski to beat Allianssi Vantaa 8-0 snapped up by an unusually large number of punters - and then winced when it happened on July 7 last. After an investigation, the Finnish FA fined Allianssi €10,000 and their coach Thierry Pister €5,000 for “insufficient preparation for a league match”. However, despite fining Allianssi, a disciplinary committee did not back accusations that the match had been fixed, since they could find no proof.asks John Briggs back in the day.“I’m sure your Norwegian readers will remember the World Cup qualifying match in Rotterdam between the Netherlands and Norway back in November 1972,” says Bjørnar Steinbakken. “Back then, Norway seldom won more than one match in an entire season, and that was usually against Iceland. Anyway, the Norwegians were pegged back by the mighty Johan Cruyff and friends from the outset and their goalkeeper, Per Haftorsen, received a yellow card for time-wasting after only five minutes. The match ended in a 9-0 victory for the home team.”Not bad, but not the fastest, according to Ed Gilbert. “On December 22 1979, Derby County played Liverpool and the Rams were awarded a penalty after just 20 seconds, which they scored. At the time Derby were on a downward spiral towards near-bankruptcy, Robert Maxwell and the old Third Division. Roy McFarland recognised that Derby were unlikely to win against the eventual league champions and so, with not a little humour, on getting the ball from the ensuing kick-off he hoofed the ball high into the stands; the referee was not amused and booked him. The report does not list the exact time, but it was pretty much around the two-minute mark.”“I was browsing results from the (Fifa recognised) Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) Cup and found that the host nation usually submits A and B teams for the tournament,” writes Gareth Bell-Jones. “In 1999 the Rwanda B team won the tournament, and in 2000 the Uganda A and B teams met in the final with Uganda A winning 2-0 to take their 8th title. Are there other instances where a B team has won an official tournament, or of A and B teams meeting in official competition?”“The discussion on multiple international grounds in one country got me thinking,” writes David Hopkins. “My team (Derby County) has hosted England internationals at three different grounds (The Racecourse Ground and The Baseball Ground in the distant past, plus Pride Park in the early 2000s). My question is whether any town smaller than Derby (250,000 residents) has hosted internationals in more different venues?”“Wasting a few hours drinking and looking on Wikipedia I noticed Tony Mowbray has ended up managing each of the clubs he represented as a player – Ipswich, Celtic and the Boro – albeit in the reverse order he played for those clubs,” writes Gary Flynn. “Has any former player managed every club for whom he played?”“Has a player ever committed a yellow-card offence, from which an advantage was played, followed by a second yellow offence in the same passage of play … resulting in the ref showing them two yellows and a red all at once?” wonders Joe Ramsey. “Also, do refs carry two yellow cards for just this eventuality (or do they have to brandish, pocket, and rebrandish the same card)?”“If Leicester do win this year’s title, Kasper Schmeichel would have won the Premier League, the Championship and League Two (with Notts County),” notes Stephen Deacon. “Has anyone won all four of the top four divisions? Also, Nathan Dyer is inline to be a loanee to win a Premier League medal. Has this been done before? Did Robert Witschge (Blackburn) and Henrik Larsson (Man Utd) play enough games?”“As of 27 March, the bottom three of the Premier League (Sunderland, Newcastle and Aston Villa) have stadiums with a combined capacity of 144,190,” writes R Lafferty. “Should all three teams end up being relegated, would this be a record combined capacity for relegation from the English top flight?”“’There aren’t many of us that stay at a club in this day and age for 10 years’ ,” writes Wayne Ziants. “So exactly how exclusive is this ‘decade club’? Which current league players haven’t moved for more than 10 years?”</content>
<class_name>Barcelona,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T10:00:03+0100</date>
<title>Are Barcelona about to break the record for the longest unbeaten run?</title>
<content>ootball makes us do funny things, like hug strangers and talk about ‘war chests’. It also scrambles our senses so we find ourselves screaming obscenities in the presence of children and forgetting that those we scream at, specifically the players, are human beings. Rich and famous, but human all the same.That means they, like us, can struggle to adapt to new surroundings, especially if those new surroundings are a new country. A different language, a different culture, a different way of living have to be mastered yet many supporters and observers expect players in that position to hit the ground running. Those who fail to do so are questioned almost immediately, written off before they’ve had time to properly unpack. In this country they quickly become known as ‘flops’, which is basically the ignorant’s code for foreigners who are all style and no substance.What is required is proof that, given time to adjust, it is possible for an overseas player to display both style and substance on foreign soil. In truth there are plenty of examples, but perhaps none more emphatic than Robert Pires. A new arrival to these shores at the beginning of a new millennium, the Frenchman initially struggled at . By the time he departed six years later, however, there was no doubting Pires’s worth, not only to his club but to English football as a whole. ‘Bobby’ was incredible. More than that, he was invincible.Arsène Wenger has described Pires as the “oil in the engine” of the Arsenal team that were crowned Premier League champions in 2004 having gone through the entire campaign unbeaten as well of as the team that won the double two years earlier when, according to the player himself, he was at his peak. “The 2001-02 season was the best in my entire career,” Pires reflected in a Sky Sports programme dedicated to him and simply entitled: ‘PL Legends’. “I played my best football; whenever I tried anything it would come off.”That was no more clear than at Villa Park on 17 March 2002 when Pires scored a goal that sealed his status as a player of sublime ingenuity, skill and confidence. As the Guardian’s former football correspondent David Lacey wrote at the time: “”. Commenting for Sky Sports, Martin Tyler described it as a “golden goal scored by a player in a golden shirt”.To fully appreciate what Pires did against Aston Villa it is worth remembering just how difficult it was for the player in those early days at Arsenal.  as a replacement for Marc Overmars, but brought with him different capabilities to those of the Dutchman. Overmars was all searing pace and power while Pires, aged 26 and a member of a France squad that had just been , was a more technical left-sided winger; able to keep and distribute the ball with either foot but slight in frame and short of aggression. In other words, someone who could struggle with the rigours of the English game.That is why Wenger decided to name Pires among Arsenal’s substitutes for their first match of the 2000-01 season – an away game at Sunderland. The manager wanted his compatriot to watch Premier League action in the flesh before stepping into the fray, and while Pires “wasn’t very happy” with the decision he accepted it and took his place in the visitors’ dugout at the Stadium of Light, sat between Dennis Bergkamp and Lauren.What Pires observed – and experienced having come on for Freddie Ljungberg as a 66th-minute substitute – was classic Premier League; a full-throttle contest in both tempo and competitiveness. It ended with Patrick Vieira being sent off in second-half injury time for striking Darren Williams and Arsenal losing 1-0 having conceded Niall Quinn’s 53rd minute header.Pires was left feeling shellshocked, with his decision to reject Real Madrid in favour of Arsenal suddenly appearing a mistake: “After 20 minutes I said to myself: ‘What am I doing here? This football isn’t for me, it’s not possible’.”Pires started Arsenal’s next match, the  (when Vieira was yet again sent off), and scored his first goal for the club in October’s  in the Champions League, but by the Frenchman’s own admission he “really struggled” during the first six months of his time in England, with no image encapsulating that better than the one of him looking disconsolate and dispirited having been knocked to the turf by Alf Inge-Haaland during Arsenal’s 5-0 win against Manchester City at Highbury on 28 October 2000. Pires’ attempt at dribbling with the ball from left to right across City’s area had come to a shuddering, seemingly illegal halt and the referee simply played on. For a player of such sensibilities it was a blow in more ways than one and the view among many was that Arsenal’s new No7 simply could not cut it.It was during this time that Pires turned not only to Wenger for guidance and support but also to David Dein. The message from the club’s vice-chairman was to keep working hard and keep believing. There was also a more specific piece of advice: score against Tottenham. “I told Robert that would make him loved by Arsenal fans,” Dein says in the PL Legends documentary, with the player taking those words fully on board. He ultimately scored eight goals in 12 games against ‘the enemy’, with his first coming in a 2-0 win at Highbury on 31 March 2001. Another followed in the FA Cup semi-final victory over Spurs at Old Trafford eight days later. It was the winner – Arsenal were on their way to Cardiff, where they would dominate proceedings but .Overall, Pires scored eight goals and assisted nine others for Arsenal during the 2000-01 season, a reasonable total given this was his debut campaign for a new team in a new country. More broadly, it was clear come May that the Frenchman had all but adapted to Premier League life. Those smooth, devastating technical abilities had come to the fore and were allied to a more robust approach in and out of possession. He was ready to kick on.Pires scored 13 goals and created 13 more for Arsenal during the 2001-02 campaign and was , all of which was particularly impressive given he didn’t play after 23 March having suffered cruciate ligament damage in the 3-0 FA Cup quarter-final win over Newcastle, a match in which he had opened the scoring after just two minutes.The injury  and, more immediately, those glorious four days in May when Arsenal  and  to seal a third double in the club’s history and the second of the Wenger era. But there was no forgetting Pires’ contribution to the success, seen most clearly when he lifted the Premier League trophy at the end of the final game of the season, a  and every member of the Arsenal squad bowed towards him. : ‘We’re not worthy, we’re not worthy’.“It was brilliant for me,” Pires says of the gesture. “And I remember that they [the Arsenal supporters] sang my name before, during and after the match: ‘Su-per, Su-per Rob, Su-per, Su-per Rob, Su-per, Su-per Rob, Super Robert Pi-res’.”.Pires’s injury really did come at the worst time possible, not only denying him the chance to put the cap on a hugely satisfying season at club level and participating at a second successive World Cup for the then holders, but also halting a player when he was in full flight. After all, it was only six days prior to the Newcastle game that Pires scored what he describes as the best goal of his Arsenal career and what perhaps remains the single moment he is best remembered for.Having fallen behind to Edu’s 15th-minute strike, Aston Villa decided to abandon their passive first-half approach and attacked with more intent and aggression after the interval. Their efforts appeared to have been rewarded when they earned a penalty, but Gareth Barry’s attempt from 12 yards was saved by David Seaman. Soon after, Arsenal sprung forward on the attack, with Freddie Ljungberg cutting out a pass from Villa’s left-back Jlloyd Samuel midway inside Arsenal’s half and swinging a long diagonal ball out to the opposite flank, where Pires was on a charging run and waiting to collect.George Boateng had run back with the Arsenal winger and, as the ball drops out of the sky, the Dutch midfielder pressed himself up against his opponent and appeared to have cut out the danger. Pires – side on, facing away from goal and with a man literally on his back – had nowhere to go. Or at least that’s what Boateng and the rest of us thought ...Having allowed the ball to bounce, Pires poked it over and in front of Boateng with his right foot before going around the same player on the opposite side. Suddenly he was one-on-one with Peter Schmeichel, who was stationed on the edge of his six-yard area and standing as tall as possible in order to make it as difficult as possible for the player in front of him to score. But Pires did not panic, and having allowed the ball a further two bounces he again used his right foot to lift it over the Villa goalkeeper and into the back of the net. It dropped like a stone in a pond, sending out ripples of astonishment.The goal may not have been the most breathtaking one scored by an Arsenal player that season – that accolade goes to Bergkamp for his  a fortnight earlier – but it was, as Lacey put it, “a piece of outrageous individualism”, which Pires recognised himself judging by the way he celebrated having made fools of Boateng and Schmeichel, two experienced pros reduced to traffic cones. Running towards the Arsenal fans located behind the goal, the winger wagged his finger in their direction before waiting for his team-mates to join him by the corner flag. As they did, Pires nodded the most Gallic nod possible, that of a man saying: “”.Pires describes the goal as “instinctive”, although having regularly practiced lobbing a goalkeeper during training sessions, the final part was somewhat premeditated. For the Arsenal blogger Tim Stillman, who was at Villa Park that Sunday afternoon, it is a moment which, 14 years on, remains as clear as it does joyful.“I was stationed in the front row, peering though the goal net,” Stillman remembers. “I could see that Pires was faced up with Schmeichel, who I was parallel with at ground level. I urged Pires to pull the trigger, willing him to put his laces behind the ball. Fortunately, Robert Pires had a little more control over the situation than this anxiety-wracked teenager. He eschewed the jackhammer and reached for the paintbrush.“Two weeks earlier I had been at St James’ Park when Dennis Bergkamp gaily laid waste to the laws of logic. The away end at Newcastle is so far away from the pitch that I simply did not appreciate the majesty of the goal in real time. With Pires’s goal I was literally front-row centre. It’s a poor view to watch a game from in truth, but for that one second it was the best seat in the house. For that reason, I have always prized Pires’s goal above Bergkamp’s.”The goal was as crucial as it was eye-catching, ensuring Arsenal left Birmingham with a win after Dion Dublin had pulled one back for the hosts with a 69th-minute header. The three points put Wenger’s men just one behind the champions and leaders Manchester United with a game in hand, which they won. In fact, Arsenal won every one of their remaining eight fixtures to complete a quite remarkable sequence of 18 wins and three draws from 21 league matches stretching back to 23 December 2001.Overall, Arsenal lost just three times during the 2001-02 season, and not once away from home. They also scored in each of their 38 contests and, through it all, had to cope with a host of long-term injuries to key players, including Tony Adams, Martin Keown, Lee Dixon, Giovanni van Bronckhorst and, of course, Pires. All of which made winning the double for a second time in four years particularly remarkable. And key to the success was the Frenchman with a sharp eye for a pass and a goal. Who knows how much more Pires would have contributed – for club and country – in 2002 had he not been stopped in his tracks by injury.The player returned the following season, scoring 15 goals and assisting two others as Arsenal finished runners-up to United and won the FA Cup for a third time under Wenger, courtesy of a Pires goal in the . The following campaign saw Arsenal reclaim the title in remarkable fashion, with Pires more than playing his part, scoring 18 goals and assisting a further 12, with his strike in the  a standout memory for player and fans alike.This was also a campaign, however, in which Pires displayed his devious side, specifically with a blatant and calculated dive in the . Arsenal earned a penalty from it, having gone behind to Teddy Sheringham’s 26th-minute header, which Thierry Henry converted, and while it may be pushing it to say there would have been no Invincibles without Pires’s tumble to the turf – Arsenal may well have gone on to equalise regardless – it ultimately played a part.But that is a small blemish on a record of outstanding achievement and the only regret, certainly for Pires himself, is that he did not finish his career at Arsenal. That was the plan but having endured a frustrating 2005-06 campaign, which culminated in him being substituted in  following Jens Lehmann’s 18th-minute sending-off, the player, by then aged 32, decided his time was up in north London and he  .There came a return to England in 2010 –  – prior to a spell at FC Goa in India before Pires called it a day. He now works as a pundit for French TV while , partly to keep fit, partly to keep in touch with Wenger, whom he describes as a “father”, and partly so he can offer advice and support to Arsenal’s current squad.For them and football followers in general, Pires is walking, talking proof that with a little time even the most brittle-looking of foreigners can soar in the Premier League. Or as Dein put it: “Robert will be remembered fondly by any one who appreciates good football. He brought a touch of class to the game.”</content>
<class_name>Arsenal,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T10:26:49+0100</date>
<title>Golden Goal: Robert Pires for Arsenal v Aston Villa (2002)</title>
<content>The Socceroos are donating $90,000 in match fees from Tuesday’s World Cup qualifier with Jordan to help develop aspiring young Indigenous players.The donation will go to John Moriarty Football (JMF), a foundation which runs in remote Northern Territory providing youngsters with access to coaching, match experience and education about the game.Run by John Moriarty in Borroloola, JMF has already had significant success with 14-year-old Shadeene Evans, who started playing football as a nine-year-old and has since moved to Sydney to attend Westfield Sports High.The Socceroos’ gesture coincides with Football Federation Australia’s launch of the first Indigenous football week on Tuesday.“This is a cause the players are extremely passionate about,” Socceroos skipper Mile Jedinak said. “The work that John Moriarty Football carries out is truly remarkable, and we are committed to bettering the lives of Indigenous Australians.”A delighted Moriarty thanked the team.“I am humbled that the Socceroos, who I hold so dearly, have made a contribution and that the football profession will put its support around our young players, in the same way that the football community embraced me so many years ago and showed me a different life,” said Moriarty, who in 1961 became the first Indigenous player to be selected for .“The ripple effect of change amongst children in remote communities will be immense.”</content>
<class_name>Australia,Australia sport,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T05:18:02+0100</date>
<title>Socceroos give $90,000 to Indigenous football in Australia</title>
<content>Tim Cahill believes there are staunch critics of the Socceroos who must now be forced to stop picking holes in the team after  made light work of Jordan in Tuesday night’s crunch World Cup qualifier at Allianz Stadium, beating the Harry Redknapp-coached side 5-1.Having been rested in last week’s 7-0 win over Tajikistan, Cahill made his mark back in the starting line-up with a first-half brace that took his international goal tally to 47. The 36-year-old could make it 50 in a matter of months, with May’s friendly with England and June’s two-game series with Greece on the horizon.“People said I wasn’t even going to get to 40, people said I wasn’t even going to make the last World Cup and the Asian Cup,” Cahill said. “Consistency is my game ... and I’ve been consistent. So 47 in 89 [appearances], it’s not a fluke.“[But] it isn’t about me. If the boss [Ange Postecoglou] calls me I’m going to play, but if the boss wasn’t here I wouldn’t be here. That’s straight up, everyone knows that. I believe in him, he believes in this team.”Cahill’s consistent form has him on track to play a fourth World Cup in Russia 2018, after the Jordan win saw the Socceroos successfully advance to the final stage of qualifying, which starts later this year.The veteran striker believed Australia’s form to be on the same level as that which won them the Asian Cup last year. And he took a swipe at the local media who he thinks have been critical of the team. “Everyone has been looking to pick holes in the team, pick holes in the manager, and now they’ve got to write something positive,” Cahill said. “These young players are fantastic ... and when we come into camp there’s players not here who are sitting at home watching the game thinking ‘I wish I could be part of this team’.“So they’re going to work just as hard. You can’t even play 70% for this team because if you do, you won’t play. The depth is exceptional, we’ve shown tonight that we can play against anyone.”</content>
<class_name>Australia,World Cup 2018 qualifiers,Australia sport,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T01:42:41+0100</date>
<title>Tim Cahill hits out at perceived media criticism of Socceroos</title>
<content>The stakes couldn’t have been higher for Tuesday. If the US men lost to Guatemala again, they’d be on the brink of missing the 2018 World Cup and coach Jürgen Klinsmann’s job would surely be on the line.But for now, it appears all is forgiven – at least Klinsmann may be hoping so.After a disastrous first leg the saw the US embarrassed in Guatemala, the US surged back and steamrolled past Los Chapines in Columbus, Ohio on Tuesday, 4-0.With pressure mounting, Klinsmann started a much more conservative and practical line-up by overhauling the starting 11 that suffered the previous stunning defeat. Those changes, which included putting players in more natural roles, looked like the difference in the second leg of Concacaf World Cup qualifying against Guatemala.“We talked over the past few days about what it would take on a night like this,” US midfielder Michael Bradley said. “We’ve got a lot of guys who have played games like this before. I think our experience and commitment carried us through.”Now, the US sits second Group C at 7 points, below Trinidad & Tobago with 10 points. Guatemala dropped to third place on 6 points while St Vincent & the Grenadines sits at the bottom scoreless. The top two teams will advance to the next and final hexagonal round of Concacaf qualifying – and if the US wins their next qualifier in September, they will are almost assured to advance.Midfielder Graham Zusi, who was called in over the weekend as surprise reinforcement, earned a starting nod against Guatemala and eventually added the USA’s third goal. Twenty seconds in the second half, a loose ball got away from Gyasi Zardes and Zusi fired it past goalkeeper Paulo Motta.Clint Dempsey, who had been left off Klinsmann’s last two rosters before returning for this series, played the early hero for the Americans. In the 12th minute, Geoff Cameron floated a ball toward Zardes, who drew two Guatemalan defenders in the box. Zardes knocked it into the path of the on-running Dempsey for the one-time strike.Cameron doubled the US lead in the 35th minute. Bradley lobbed a free kick as Cameron easily broke away from his defender, header heading it back toward the near post to double the US lead.Ethan Finlay scored what should’ve been a fourth goal for the US, but the officiating crew wrongly called him offside. Instead that last goal went to Jozy Altidore who scored in the 89th minute, knocking in a ball laid off by Dempsey.Bradley will be ruled out for the USA’s next World Cup qualifying match against St Vincent & the Grenadines in September on yellow card accumulation.Christian Pulisic, the 17-year-old midfielder with Borussia Dortmund, entered the match late for his first official US cap, tying him to the US national team for his international career despite his Croatian eligibility.Tuesday’s match against Guatemala should have been a routine qualifier for the US, but a stunning 2-0 loss on Friday made it a must-win. The US’s first leg loss to Guatemala was their first since 1988 and with it, Guatemala became the lowest-ranked team the US had ever lost to in a non-friendly since rankings were introduced in 1992. The US also continued a streak that saw them winless in their last six non-friendlies against teams ranked in Fifa’s top 100 world teams.With Friday’s loss, Guatemala became the lowest-ranked team the US had ever lost to in a non-friendly since rankings were introduced in 1992. The US also continued a streak that saw them winless in their last six non-friendlies against teams ranked in Fifa’s top 100 world teams.“For me the difference was the collective mentality, the effort, the commitment, the willingness to forget about everything else on the outside and when the whistle blew, spill their guts on the field,” Bradley said.According to , the US now have a 92% chance of advancing to the next hexagonal round of World Cup qualifying. If they had drawn to Guatemala, that chance would’ve dropped to 59 percent and a loss would’ve put it as an alarming 10%, making it a must-win scenario.For Klinsmann, his revamped roster that replaced five players and shifted the roles of others into more natural positions may amount to an admission of the wrong strategy in Guatemala. The accusation that Klinsmann uses his players in the wrong positions isn’t a new one, especially after a string of bad results in the past year.Over the weekend, Klinsmann insisted he didn’t play anyone out of position on Friday, but his changes suggested otherwise. Klinsmann’s more pragmatic approach moved Cameron to his favored center-back from right back and Deandre Yedlin was pulled back from a winger role to right back, where he plays for Tottenham.Klinsmann’s preferred first choice center-back John Brooks and left back Fabian Johnson were both injured for both legs.The US came out in a 4-3-3 and looked more organized than they did during their nightmare first-leg showing in Guatemala. They pressured Los Chapines high and by all accounts dominated. The US out-shot them 9-to-5 and held the edge across the board in possession (52% to 48%), final third passing accuracy (68% to 54%) and crossing accuracy (13% to 0%).Before the kickoff in Columbus, fans hired a plane to fly a banner over Mapfre Stadium with the hashtag #KlinsmannOut and the phrase, “He’s a tiny little bit behind,” a reference to Klinsmann’s explanation for cutting Landon Donovan before the 2014 World Cup. It appears those fans will have to wait a while longer to get what they want.Now, moving onto the next round of World Cup qualifying appears all but guaranteed. The US will face St Vincent & the Grenadines on 2 September.</content>
<class_name>World Cup 2018 qualifiers,USA,US sports,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T02:55:44+0100</date>
<title>USA prevail 4-0 over Guatemala in must-win World Cup qualifier</title>
<content> are not showing James Rodríguez the respect he deserves, according to former Colombia striker Faustino Asprilla.Rodríguez has had an underwhelming second season in the Spanish capital following his £63m move to Madrid from Monaco in 2014.Rodríguez put his domestic woes aside to inspire  to a last-gasp 3-2 win at Bolivia in a World Cup qualifier last week, opening the scoring and laying on a pass for Carlos Bacca to get the second.“James doesn’t try harder for Colombia than Real Madrid, but here in Colombia he is given the true importance that a player of his character needs to perform,” , the former Newcastle United and Parma forward, told the Spanish newspaper Marca.“He is a very young boy with an awful lot of talent but James hasn’t been given the support he needs by his club. When he had that support from [Carlo] Ancelotti he showed his true value.“This season he hasn’t been able to prove anything because they haven’t given him the special treatment every player needs from their club.”Rodríguez scored 17 times in 43 appearances in his first season in Spain under Ancelotti, but the 24-year-old has made only 13 league starts this campaign due to a combination of a thigh injury and falling out of favour with coaches Rafael Benítez and his successor Zinedine Zidane, who has left him out of the starting line-up for Real’s last four matches.Asprilla, his country’s third all-time leading scorer with 20 goals, also believes Benítez had a problem with Colombian players.“I sincerely believe that Benítez must have something against Colombians, because it’s the only way to explain his attitude towards my compatriots,” he added.“James had just had an exceptional campaign in his first year with the club, then this man turns up and puts him on the bench.”</content>
<class_name>Real Madrid,Colombia,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T14:16:17+0100</date>
<title>James Rodríguez not getting enough respect at Real Madrid – Tino Asprilla</title>
<content>Argue about the Danny Rose handball and the charge on Phil Jagielka all you like, but you’ll be dancing on the head of a pin. Bottom line, this England defence just isn’t very good at defending. Jagielka paid the ultimate price for world-class passive faffing; Rose was caught out of position on more occasions than he’ll care to recall; and John Stones’ Beckenbauer tribute act  in the workshop (sometimes, you just have to put your foot through it). This needn’t matter though. Rose, Stones and Kyle Walker are all impressive contributors to an England attack able to ping the ball around in a very aesthetically pleasing manner. So the solution is obvious. Pile forward! There’s absolutely  England can win Euro 2016 by trying to keep it tight; attempting to outscore everyone else is surely the only possible option. Turn a shambles into a plus point. If you’re going to fail, it might as well be fun. And if you think that sort of carry-on would be exciting now, just wait until Brendan takes over from Roy! The generation of young French attackers Didier Deschamps has at his disposal is so extraordinary, a handful of very talented forwards are going to have to watch the European Championship on television. The France manager, who has integrated Anthony Martial into the team since the youngster joined Manchester United, suddenly had some seriously delicious food for thought when 19-year-old Kingsley Coman came on as Martial’s second half replacement. The Bayern Munich attacker made Russia’s defence look foolish. Audacity was an understatement, and the mix of direct running with a dash of panache left a big impression. He had a sort of assist with the run that earned Dimitri Payet his free kick, then scored a scorcher of a goal himself. Deschamps also has an assortment of promising youthful attackers to consider who were not even in this squad - new sensation Ousmane Dembélé of Rennes and his clubmade Paul-Georges Ntep, plus the Lyon pair of Nabil Fekir and Alexandre Lacazette who are returning to form and fitness.  expects some of these fresh faces to dazzle in the summer. The only question is which ones. Italy were completely overrun by Germany in Munich, Antonio Conte’s 3-4-3 formation having no answer to Joachim Löw’s experimental set-up with three at the back and two attacking full-backs in Jonas Hector and Sebastian Rudy. True, Conte had made five changes to the side that impressed in  last Thursday and gave full debuts to Francesco Acerbi and Federico Bernardeschi, but it did not work. The former Sunderland player Emanuele Giaccherini struggled on the left of midfield while Simone Zaza had very, very little to work with up front. “It is good to have important games [against top nations] to make an evaluation of where we are,” said Conte. “Losing is never fun but playing Spain and Germany means we have played the best and therefore understood the distance to the top teams. There is a gap to bridge to some teams and we know that.” To make matters worse, Leonardo Bonucci was carried off on a stretcher and could be out for some time. It was better news for Germany and Löw after Saturday’s defeat against England. Toni Kroos, Mario Götze, Hector and Mesut Özil scored the goals in Germany’s 4-1 win before a late reply by Stephan El Shaarawy. Götze will be particularly pleased to have started – and scored – but he was still criticised on the night by the former Bayern Munich midfielder Mehmet Scholl, who said the 23-year-old must train “much, much more. He used to be an arrow, so quick...” If Luis Suárez felt that the reaction to his bite on Giorgio Chiellini was over the top, he may now reflect that redemption tastes sweet. In the 20 months since Fifa banned the Uruguayan for sinking his teeth into Chiellini, the world governing body has been exposed as a hive of scum and villainy while Suárez has confirmed that he is the best striker on the planet. And, on Saturday, he finally returned to the international stage and, naturally, scored for his country. Uruguay’s 2-2 draw in  was a highly creditable result bearing in mind that the hosts produced their best attacking performance for a while and the visitors were deprived of their first-choice centre-backs, the superb Atlético Madrid pairing of Diego Godín and José Giménez. Suárez, mind you, should probably have scored more than once, as he also missed a couple of good chances, and the goal of the game was scored by Renato Augusto, who flummoxed the opposing keeper with a magnificently cool dummy, before smashing the ball into the roof of the net. Conor Washington’s first international goal was one to savour for a former postman and St Ives Town striker. “It’s one of the highlights of my career,” said the Queens Park Rangers forward. “A fairytale.” For Michael O’Neill, however, its value lay beyond victory over Slovenia on Monday, or securing the longest unbeaten run in Northern Ireland’s history. Tournament football tests the resources of the strongest nations and , for all their superb organisation, team spirit and the momentum of a 10-game unbeaten record, will be stretched on that score at the European Championships. The loss of Chris Brunt to a cruciate knee ligament injury and Kyle Lafferty’s inactivity at Norwich City – something O’Neill desperately needs him to rectify while on loan at Birmingham City – represent major headaches.Washington’s emergence and impact in only his second international appearance, therefore, plus his understanding alongside the impressive Jamie Ward at Windsor Park, assumes added importance with France approaching. Not that O’Neill accepts the argument that Northern Ireland’s qualification for  was all about Lafferty’s finishing. The manager said: “Kyle scored seven hugely important goals in qualification. Would we have been there without him? It is debatable whether we would have been. But we scored 18 goals overall so we found 11 goals from somewhere else. This team has proven that, at the big moments, we’ve had players who have stepped up – Gareth [McAuley], Josh [Magennis] and now Conor, a player we believe can affect games at key moments for us. We’re also getting competition for places. Maybe in the past we’ve been too reliant on too few key players. As our key players grow, equally we’ll be stronger for that.” Perhaps it came as a consequence of such a subdued build-up to Scotland’s no-man’s-land friendly fixtures, but the country’s under-21 side found itself just as much the subject of any national team debate and discussion this week. While the rest of the United Kingdom is preparing for Euro 2016,  is seemingly tearing itself apart over preparations for the next generation. Rather bizarrely, the jumping-off point came in last week’s European Under-21 Championship qualification defeat to France, with one tabloid column in particular prompting sharp Twitter responses from two members of Scotland’s Under-21 squad, Ryan Gauld and Callum Paterson.If concern over the promise of Ricky Sbragia’s team is justified, it can only be because Gordon Strachan has fast-tracked the country’s best young talent into his senior side. Kenny McLean, Tony Watt, Kieran Tierney, John McGinn and Oliver Burke were all handed debuts over the past week’s two fixtures, with not one youngster floundering in back-to-back 1-0 wins  and Denmark. Scotland might not be on the brink of a golden generation, but they’re not quite sifting through the scrap metal. The meetings with Northern Ireland and Ukraine gave Chris Coleman confirmation of a couple of things that he already knew: his team need to fine-tune their defending of setpieces; and Joe Allen remains an excellent player for Wales even if  at Liverpool. Coleman does not seem inclined to make many changes to the squad that performed so well and with such formidable spirit during the qualifiers, but one player who may have made an irresistible late case for inclusion in the Euro 2016 travelling party is Emyr Huws, especially with doubts over David Edwards’ fitness. The 22-year-old Wigan midfielder, currently on loan at Huddersfield Town, has appeared only fleetingly since gaining his first cap in 2014 but in Kiev he gave such an accomplished display that he suggested he could become a valuable squad member in France. Nigeria should have been kicked out of the Africa Cup of Nations as punishment for the dangerous stupidity that led to some 40,000 people being encouraged to  in Kaduna on Friday. As it turned out, they were eliminated anyway, as, following Mohamed Salah’s last-minute equaliser in Kaduna, Egypt went on to beat the Super Eagles 1-0 in Alexandria on Tuesday. It was a deserved win for the nifty hosts, although Nigeria, in fairness, improved towards the end of that match – especially after Alex Iwobi came on – and Victor Moses had a shot come back off a post, as he did in the first match. Nigeria were also unlucky that Chad withdrew from the qualifiers midway through, meaning all goals and wins against them were expunged and Nigeria cannot qualify as one of the best runners-up. The 2013 African champions will, then, miss their continent’s showpiece for the second time in a row.  scored 10 goals in their two meetings with Ethiopia in the last week, winning 7-1 at home before drawing 3-3 on a bobbly pitch in Addis Ababa. After opening the scoring in the first match, the Algerian players showed what they thought about persistent rumours that Christian Gourcuff will be replaced as their manager by running to celebrate with him. The Frenchman has had an unsettled relationship with the Algerian federation and is continually linked with a return to Ligue 1, although he claims he has never considered quitting his current post. And what a pity for him it would be if he did. Because, as his players went on to demonstrate, he is in charge of a team with wonderful attacking talent.The results against Ethiopia went a long way towards ensuring their participation in next year’s Africa Cup of Nations, and came on the back of a 7-0 win over Tanzania in World Cup qualification. The matches with Ethiopia also featured some particularly delicious goals, including a superb 20-yard volley goal from Saphir Taïder in the first game and a slamming header from Islam Slimani in the second – following a dinky pass from Riyad Mahrez and a . With players like those – and Yacine Brahimi and Sofiane Feghouli – Algeria have the potential to do damage to any team in the world. In recent months Gourcuff, always a nurturer of flair, has learned to introduce more flexibility into his tactics; it would be a shame for he and this team to go separate ways now. It has been quite the few days for Shay Given, despite the once internationally retired  goalkeeper having not played. First, Jack Butland – who is ahead of him in the pecking order at their club, Stoke City – suffered serious injury on England duty against Germany on Saturday, and then Newcastle United’s Rob Elliot did likewise in the Ireland goal against Slovakia on Tuesday. With perfect timing, Given himself is now fit and available after a long-term knee problem and the 39-year-old can spy opportunity, most immediately at Stoke and, in turn, Ireland. “It is a window for me to play and I feel I could play at the weekend against Swansea City,” Given said. “It has given me a lift. Martin [O’Neill, the Ireland manager] is hoping I get into the Stoke team to make the decision more difficult for him.”Elliot’s misfortune means that Given looks assured to be one of O’Neill’s three goalkeepers at the European Championship, alongside Darren Randolph and David Forde. Randolph stands to be the No1. Previously, O’Neill looked like he would have to choose between Given and Forde for the third-choice spot. And, if Given could impress between now and the end of the season for Stoke, the possibilities are obvious. Given was a TV pundit during the Slovakia game and, weirdly, when O’Neill was interviewed post-match, the goalkeeper’s analysis and criticisms were put to him by the reporter. “Shay came into the dressing-room after the game,” O’Neill said. “Butland’s injury has maybe hastened things on a bit. Shay looked remarkably good and I think he’s ready to play now, which is great.” </content>
<class_name>Friendlies,England,France,Italy,Germany,Russia,Holland,Brazil,Uruguay,Northern Ireland,Scotland,Wales,Nigeria,Algeria,Republic of Ireland,Africa Cup of Nations,World Cup 2018 qualifiers,Euro 2016,World Cup,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T09:29:10+0100</date>
<title>International football: 10 talking points from all the latest action</title>
<content>Joachim Löw hopes Mario Götze’s goal and overall performance in Germany’s 4-1 victory against Italy on Tuesday will boost the attacking midfielder’s confidence as he struggles for playing time at .Götze, 23, has been largely overlooked by Pep Guardiola at Bayern since returning from a five-month injury break in February, with speculation over  gaining traction in recent weeks.“Mario earned this [performance] himself,” Löw told reporters. “I can understand why he may be playing less at Bayern at the moment because they have a great squad and he was injured for a long time.“But Mario has worked hard in the past weeks, he did individual training sessions to get back to his best and I hope the game today gave him the self-confidence he needs for the coming weeks.”Götze, who scored Germany’s winning goal in the , has never held down a regular starting spot under Guardiola despite his big-money move from Dortmund in 2013.Löw has kept faith with Götze, however, and the gifted player paid him back by heading in Germany’s second goal on Tuesday and then helping set up their third with a jaw-dropping flick that eventually saw Jonas Hector score.“It was important for me to play again,” Götze told reporters. “I am very happy to have been on the pitch and it is just great to feel that my coach is trusting me. This means a lot for me at the moment.”It is not the first time Götze’s future at Bayern has been in doubt with the player mainly left on the bench as the Bavarian club charge towards a treble of titles. He had also complained about his limited playing time at the start of the season.Asked about his future plans, Götze, whose contract with Bayern runs out in 2017, remained coy. “For me it is important to play because that is when I am happy,” he said. “Everything else will come by itself and there’s no need to talk about that.”</content>
<class_name>Germany,Bayern Munich,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T00:03:42+0100</date>
<title>Joachim Löw hopeful Mario Götze’s Germany goal will turn season around</title>
<content>Gareth Bale believes  can still wrestle the La Liga title from Barcelona’s grasp. Before Saturday’s El Clásico at the Camp Nou, Real trail Barcelona by 10 points, with their city rivals Atlético Madrid in between them.Bale has scored seven goals in his last six league outings and, after being , feels ready to help Real beat the Catalans and begin closing the gap over an eight-game run-in.Quoted in Marca, he told a press conference: “I think everything is possible in football. We’re 10 points behind but we will keep fighting until it is impossible.“We have to score there. We know it will be difficult and we will have to be at 100 per cent. You have to attack them and, if we play our best football, we will win.“On Saturday we can get to within seven points of them and you never know what might happen next.”After an underwhelming second season in the Spanish capital Bale has become a key component of Real’s attacking machine and will surpass his best haul of 15 league goals in a Madrid shirt if he scores in .“,” he added. “I speak some Spanish. I think I have to keep working hard and improving, giving my all and helping the team.“Everyone knows I like to play in the middle and then move about but, if I start from out right, I can play more economically and support my team-mates better.” since replacing Rafael Benítez as head coach in January and  the Frenchman’s famous guttural cries from the touchline.The former Tottenham player added: “I’m not surprised (that Zidane gets angry). Sometimes we need someone to shout and nudge us in the right direction. I hope we finish the season with a trophy.”</content>
<class_name>Gareth Bale,Real Madrid,La Liga,Barcelona,European club football,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T21:39:39+0100</date>
<title>Gareth Bale believes Real Madrid can still pip Barcelona to La Liga title</title>
<content>The only real issue here is whether Tom Heaton or Ben Foster takes the role of third-choice goalkeeper now  has moved Fraser Forster up a place in the pecking order to become Joe Hart’s first deputy. Heaton was in the last squad because of Hart’s absence but it was revealing that Roy Hodgson called Ben Foster to talk it through with the goalkeeper he previously managed at West Bromwich Albion. Foster has one international retirement behind him and it is not absolutely clear whether he would want to take a role that would almost certainly mean no match-time. Joe Hart, Fraser Forster Tom Heaton, Ben FosterRoy Hodgson did not take kindly to the suggestion that the one obvious deficiency in the England team was their defensive structure. “Before these two games we had played 10 qualifying matches and let in three goals,” he said after the double-header against  and . “We haven’t let in an awful lot of goals. I’m not certain that line is 100% fair and valid criticism.”Except Hodgson overlooked the  last November and his point about the qualifying programme neglected to mention the moderate state of opposition. Chris Smalling’s improved form for Manchester United makes him an automatic starter in France but he can still be accident-prone; if he is regarded as the best of the lot, that shows this is not a golden era for English central defenders.Unfortunately for Hodgson there is not a great deal of choice elsewhere and all four of his favoured centre-backs are right-sided players without anyone who prefers the left-sided role. John Terry? “Yes, who knows?” Hodgson said, smiling, but one slightly strange comment does not mean anyone should expect Chelsea’s captain to be ushered out of international retirement.Instead Hodgson will almost certainly go for Gary Cahill, Terry’s understudy at Chelsea. Phil Jagielka will go in reserve, whereas John Stones should still be guaranteed a place in the squad despite .At the same time their Everton team-mate Leighton Baines must be fretting about the left-back role. Danny Rose now appears to be in pole position for that place ahead of Ryan Bertrand while it is difficult to look beyond Nathaniel Clyne and Kyle Walker on the other side. Hodgson is, however, an admirer of Phil Jones’s versatility and there is still a small chance of a late twist if the player returns from injury. Chris Smalling, John Stones, Gary Cahill, Phil Jagielka, Danny Rose, Nathaniel Clyne Kyle Walker, Leighton Baines, Ryan Bertrand Phil Jones, Luke ShawWhen Roy Hodgson talked before the Germany game about Eric Dier, Danny Drinkwater and Jack Wilshere effectively being in a three-way battle for two holding-midfield positions it was largely overlooked that Michael Carrick did not even figure in the conversation. Carrick was left out of the squad and a long yet strangely unsatisfactory international career, featuring 22 starts in 14 years, might be winding to a close.Hodgson also mentioned that Dier and Drinkwater were “in the shadow” of Wilshere, which is a measure of how devoted he is to the idea of taking the Arsenal player. In that case Dier appears to have the edge over Drinkwater in the manager’s thinking. Dele Alli has made himself a mandatory pick and Hodgson will presumably experiment in England’s remaining three warm-up matches to see whether he can fit the Spurs player into a midfield also featuring Ross Barkley. Raheem Sterling’s groin injury is a concern but he is expected back around the time Hodgson names his provisional squad in mid-May and will be another certainty provided the manager is convinced of the Manchester City player’s fitness. Dele Alli, James Milner, Jordan Henderson, Ross Barkley, Raheem Sterling Danny Drinkwater, Eric Dier, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Adam Lallana, Fabian Delph, Jack Wilshere Michael Carrick, Jonjo ShelveyThere was a slightly awkward moment when Roy Hodgson was eulogising about Jamie Vardy’s form and drew a parallel between the trajectory of the Leicester City player’s career and another striker who had been on the scene for much longer. “He’s 28, so he’s not a youngster compared to the others,” Hodgson said of Vardy, “but he’s very young in terms of his top-class playing career and he’s a very fit guy, so he’s not going to be burnt out at the age of 31 or 32 like some fellas who, to be fair, get in the first-team at 16 and have had 14 years of it.”Sound like anyone you know? That was the point at which one of the Football Association’s press officers interrupted to say this was not intended as a reference to Wayne Rooney. Hodgson had described everything that Rooney’s critics can see but the bottom line in the ongoing debate about England’s current captain is that there is no way he will not be involved in France given his experience and goalscoring record.The greater issue for Hodgson is whether Rooney should start in the team when Vardy and Harry Kane have made compelling cases for their own inclusions, at a time when Daniel Sturridge and Danny Welbeck appear to have overcome injury issues. On that basis the most likely player to miss out, with five places up for grabs, is Theo Walcott, whose spell out of the team at Arsenal clearly counts against him.“A lot of players have work to do but it is going to be harder for the players who are not in their team and don’t get a chance to show what they can do,” Hodgson said when he was asked about Walcott’s removal from Arsène Wenger’s side. “One can’t deny that it will be even harder for them.” Wayne Rooney, Harry Kane, Jamie Vardy Daniel Sturridge, Danny Welbeck, Theo Walcott</content>
<class_name>England,Euro 2016,European Championship,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T22:52:11+0100</date>
<title>England’s Euro 2016 squad: who’s on the plane and who’ll be missing out?</title>
<content>Jan Bech Andersen has resigned as Brondby’s president after being caught using a pseudonym to criticise his own club’s coach on a fans’ forum.The posts on the SydSiden Online forum , and prompted the coach, Thomas Frank, to leave the Danish top-flight club, blaming their “strained relationship”.Andersen, who owns more than 25% of the club, admitted he had posted the criticism under the pseudonym “Oscar”, using his son’s account. He said he would step aside, while maintaining his financial commitment.He told the club’s website: “Due to the large media focus on me in the last few weeks, I have decided that it is best for the club that I do not seek re-election to the board. I stepped out of line and I take the consequences.“[But] I want to make it crystal clear that my big financial commitment to the club as investor and co-owner is completely unchanged … I have always said that it is not important for me to be president, and no one should be in doubt that the club’s welfare is the most important for me.“We all have one goal, whether we are fans, shareholders, directors, sponsors, volunteers or employees. To create a sustainable  … I stand, as previously promised, financially shoulder to shoulder with the club.”Earlier this month Brondby fired their chief executive, Soren Vadmand, shortly before posting a loss of 17m Danish Krone (£1.75m) for 2015. The chief financial officer, Jesper Jorgensen, took over as the eighth CEO in as many years.Brondby are fourth in the Danish championship, nine points behind the leaders Copenhagen.</content>
<class_name>Brondby,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T11:34:19+0100</date>
<title>Brondby president quits after being caught criticising coach on fans’ forum</title>
<content>Roy Hodgson has admitted England are missing John Terry’s presence in the centre of their defence as he tries to prevent it from being the team’s weak point when they head into Euro 2016 with .Hodgson has met the former  captain – “I had a long chat with John the other day,” he said. “He’s a lovely fella” – and acknowledged that, if circumstances had been different, Terry would have been the ideal candidate to partner Chris Smalling, his first-choice centre-back.“There are, in my opinion, no left-sided centre-backs who are English and playing in the Premier League who are at least at the level of the ones we are choosing,” the manager said. “That’s a fact of life and there is not much we can do about it. We haven’t got the left-sided one but there is nothing I can do about that unless suddenly in the next five weeks some brilliant English left-sided centre-back appears on the scene – and I don’t anticipate that.”Terry retired from England duty in September 2012 after claiming the Football Association had made his position “untenable” in the fallout from his trial for allegedly racially abusing Anton Ferdinand in a Chelsea match at Queens Park Rangers, in which he was cleared. There is a new regime at the FA now but, having indicated behind the scenes at one point that he wanted to return, Terry has since reiterated he will not change his decision.All Hodgson knows is that Terry, at 35, still ticks the boxes of what he needs before this summer’s tournament. “Yes, who knows?” he said, smiling. “Because he retired so long ago he doesn’t feature in my thinking too often but I can’t deny that is a valid point. He is a left-sided centre-half.”Instead the role could conceivably be filled by Gary Cahill, one of the players behind Terry in the pecking order at Chelsea, after an unhappy night for Stones in the  at Wembley, when it was the Everton defender’s slip that led to the Dutch team starting their second-half comeback.Hodgson had spoken before the match about the importance of Stones cutting out his habit of over-playing in defence and urged a player coveted by Manchester United, Chelsea and Manchester City to understand “when you are a centre-half at a top, top club you can’t afford to make a lot of mistakes in every game”. Stones has lost his place in the Everton team and Hodgson is aware the 21-year-old will face some pressing questions.“That’s what playing for England is about and unfortunately John will have to come to terms with that,” Hodgson said. “It’s hard enough getting away from it in the Premier League, playing for your club, never mind when you play for England and it happens at Wembley.“For me a slip’s a slip. I don’t know that I, as a football coach and an ex-footballer, will put quite so much importance on the fact that he slipped. But I can’t change the way people consider it. Sometimes people have had careers ruined by being unlucky. I would put that slip down to misfortune but, if I analysed his 90-minute performance, I don’t think I would criticise him too heavily.”Stones also received backing from James Milner, England’s stand-in captain. “If I was him, I’d be taking it as a compliment in a way,” Milner said. “He has played so well that he has put himself on a pedestal and people are interested in him. When you are playing well you are up there to be shot down.”England have conceded four goals in two games but Hodgson said it was important to analyse the nature of them, pointing out that the first one came against Germany directly after  and the second goal for Holland originated from what appeared to be a clear foul on Phil Jagielka, who had replaced Smalling.“I think it’s harsh to say those things,” Hodgson said, when it was put to him that his team might be vulnerable at the back. “If we were conceding a lot of goals because the opposition were creating chance after chance after chance, I think it probably would be valid. If you analyse the goals we conceded, I don’t think the point is valid.”</content>
<class_name>England,Roy Hodgson,John Terry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T22:40:02+0100</date>
<title>England are missing John Terry in defence, admits Roy Hodgson</title>
<content>Johnny King, the man who led  Rovers from the old fourth division to the brink of the Premier League, has died aged 77.King started his playing career at Everton in 1957 but it was as manager of Tranmere that he enjoyed most success and became a revered figure at Prenton Park. During two spells in charge he won three promotions and in the second, from 1987 to 1996, almost took the Wirral club into the top flight.Tranmere were fighting to avoid relegation out of the Football League when King returned as manager in 1987. Under the charismatic coach, who vowed to take supporters on “a rocket ride to the moon”, Rovers went on to reach the Premier League play-offs three times between 1993 and 1995. There was also progress to the semi-final of the League Cup in 1994 when Tranmere lost out to eventual winners, Aston Villa, in a penalty shootout. They were remarkable achievements for a club of Tranmere’s financial resources.A highly-respected figure on Merseyside and beyond, King had a stand at Prenton Park named in his honour in 2002. In 2014, a statue of Tranmere’s most successful manager was unveiled outside the stadium. It was paid for by the supporters.The current Tranmere chairman, Mark Palios, announced: “It is with enormous sadness I have learned that Johnny King has passed away peacefully with his family at his side after a long illness. A great manager, a great man and a true Tranmere legend. Our thoughts are with his family.”</content>
<class_name>Tranmere,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:26:16+0100</date>
<title>Johnny King, former Tranmere Rovers manager, dies aged 77</title>
<content> are hoping to end Nicklas Bendtner’s time at the club by terminating his contract 15 months early.The Danish striker joined on a free transfer from Arsenal in 2014 but has failed to make an impact and has had several disciplinary issues this season, including being fined for oversleeping and being late for training.Bendtner has been training on his own for the past two weeks and the club’s sporting director, Klaus Allofs, said on Thursday that they are hoping to let the striker go as soon as possible.“We have attempted to hold talks with his advisers and have discussed a solution. I think that there will be a decision soon,” . “We have decided that he does not have to come in for now. The fact that he has been training on his own recently was not something we wanted to carry on.”The 28-year-old Dane has scored three goals in 31 league appearances since joining the  club.</content>
<class_name>Wolfsburg,Bundesliga,European club football,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:23:37+0100</date>
<title>Wolfsburg look to terminate Nicklas Bendtner’s contract immediately</title>
<content>James Milner has said Dele Alli can become 10 times better but believes the England and  youngster needs to be shielded from unreasonable levels of hype.Alli grabbed the headlines with an excellent performance in  and Milner will be well aware of the threat posed by the midfielder when Tottenham seek to cut Leicester City’s lead at the top of the Premier League for at least 24 hours by winning at Liverpool on Saturday evening.The 19-year-old has established himself as a key player for his country despite earning his first cap only in November, with Roy Hodgson resting him as an experimental England side  on Tuesday, but Milner stressed the importance of keeping expectations at a realistic level.“We want to be careful now and make sure we don’t put too much on him,” the  midfielder said. “We know how good he can be but we have seen it time and time again – ‘This player is going to be the next world-beater for us’ – and there is a lot of pressure there. We want to take it off him and let him go out there and not worry about it, worry about playing football and keep improving because he is still young.“Good as he is at this moment, he can be 10 times better and he will. He has a great attitude and will keep working hard and keep improving but we need to take that spotlight off him and let him develop and improve. We have seen how good he is and he will only get better I’m sure.“Hopefully you guys will stay off him a bit and try not to big him up as much. The manager knows when to play him and is not overusing him. I think it is down to him as well. We know he has got a great head on his shoulders and he is a calm guy. To make the step up and the impact he has this year is brilliant.”Milner compared Alli’s impact to Harry Kane’s emergence last season and feels that Mauricio Pochettino will keep him on the right path at Tottenham. “The manager seems brilliant there and he is going to be one of the biggest influences on him,” he said. “You have seen how many players he has brought through. Adam Lallana had him before and speaks very highly of him as well, so I think he is the one big guy who can have the most influence and he is getting the best out of him.“Like Harry last year, coming on to the scene and scoring as many goals as he did, people questioned if he could do it again and he has backed that up. He has a great bunch around him and that will help. The players he has around him at Spurs and the big bulk of players here, it will help to have that familiarity around him.”Milner, having made his debut for Leeds United when he was 16 in 2003, Milner can empathise with Alli’s situation. “Everyone’s career has ups and downs,” he said. “When things are going well don’t get carried away and likewise when it is going poorly just keep concentrating and keep working hard,” he said. The senior players had a big impact on me at Leeds. It was a different game at that time – there were different rules with the older players and they’d give you a kick up the arse if you step out of line. We won’t be doing that but I’m sure we won’t have to.”</content>
<class_name>England,Tottenham Hotspur,Liverpool,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T22:40:52+0100</date>
<title>James Milner says Dele Alli can be 10 times better but hopes hype cools</title>
<content>Despite , Fifa and the Qatari authorities have been accused of ongoing indifference towards systemic abuse and “appalling treatment” of migrant workers working on stadiums that will host the 2022 World Cup.A damning new report by Amnesty International, which interviewed 132 contractors working on refurbishing the Khalifa International Stadium in Doha and a further 102 landscapers who work in the Aspire Zone sports complex that surrounds it, claimed that they all reported human rights abuses of one kind or another.The findings will prove controversial because Qatar’s Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy has made ensuring minimum standards are met on World Cup stadium projects a priority in the wake of widespread criticism of the broader conditions in which migrant labourers, who make up , live and work. For the first time, Amnesty said it had definitively identified mistreatment and abuses on a  stadium site rather than on infrastructure projects that underpin Qatar’s ambitious 2030 Vision, of which the football tournament has become an integral part.It said that workers refurbishing the Khalifa stadium, scheduled to host one of the World Cup semi-finals in 2022, reported they were forced to live in squalid accommodation, appeared to pay huge recruitment fees, and have had wages withheld and passports confiscated. Amnesty conducted the interviews during three visits over the course of a year from February 2015. Qatari law prohibits retention of passports, delayed payment of wages or deceptive recruitment (where workers are promised a certain wage in their country of origin only to be paid less when they arrive). But Amnesty found evidence that all of those practices remained widespread during the period in question. The number of labourers working directly on World Cup stadiums increased from 2,000 to 4,000 in the past year and is expected to grow to 36,000 in the next two years.The Amnesty report alleges that while the organising committee has introduced welfare standards there are “significant gaps in application” and its efforts have been undermined by indifference from Fifa and apathy from the Qatari authorities. The stadium is part of the lavish Aspire Zone sports complex where Bayern Munich, Everton and Paris Saint-Germain trained this winter. The Welsh rugby team trained there before last year’s World Cup.Of the men interviewed, Amnesty’s report found that the vast majority alleged they had their passports confiscated, 88 had been denied the right to leave , many reported their wages being paid three or four months in arrears and there was evidence that some workers on the stadium contracted to a labour-supply company “appear to have been subjected to forced labour”.It said that there was evidence of workers being threatened with non-payment of wages, being deported or – conversely – not being allowed to leave Qatar because their employer would not provide an exit permit. It claimed all the men interviewed had taken out loans to pay for recruitment-related fees, often to agencies in their home country. The practice is forbidden by Qatari law but remains widespread.One metalworker on the stadium told Amnesty in April 2015: “My life here is like a prison. The work is difficult, we worked for many hours in the hot sun. When I first complained about my situation, soon after arriving in Qatar, the manager said, ‘If you want to complain you can, but there will be consequences. If you want to stay in Qatar, be quiet and keep working.’ Now I am forced to stay in Qatar and continue working.” Amnesty concluded that the human rights abuses it documented were the result of “multiple failures” and that while there had been a belated focus on the quality of workers’ accommodation by some of the companies involved, they have done little to address other well-documented issues such as deception in the recruitment process. “The abuse of migrant workers is a stain on the conscience of world football. For players and fans, a World Cup stadium is a place of dreams. For some of the workers who spoke to us, it can feel like a living nightmare,” said Amnesty International’s director general, Salil Shetty. “Indebted, living in squalid camps in the desert, paid a pittance, the lot of migrant workers contrasts sharply to that of the top-flight footballers who will play in the stadium. All workers want are their rights: to be paid on time, leave the country if need be and be treated with dignity and respect.” The report is particularly critical of Fifa’s failure to exert pressure on the Qatari authorities and a “lack of meaningful action to address the issue”. The crisis-hit world football governing body has only now promised to “formalise its human rights due diligence process”, vowed to change its World Cup bidding rules and has commissioned Harvard’s Professor John Ruggie to write a report on its human rights standards.The Amnesty report concludes its “actions and omissions offer little hope that Fifa plans to do all it can to ensure that the 2022 World Cup will leave a positive legacy and not a trail of human misery”.Shetty said: “Despite five years of promises, Fifa has failed almost completely to stop the World Cup being built on human rights abuses.”In the wake of a series of damning reports by NGOs, including Amnesty and Human Rights Watch, and major investigations by media outlets including the Guardian, the Qatari government commissioned law firm DLA Piper to review the issue in 2013.It promised to overhaul the  that ties workers to their employers, reform the exit permit regime and introduce new laws that required payment to workers to be made electronically.DLA Piper reported in May 2014 but almost two years on, the government has failed to enact its recommendations in full and has failed to properly audit how many migrant labourers are killed or injured at work. In May last year, Amnesty accused the Qatari government of “promising little, delivering less” and has said the promised reforms to the kafala system do not go far enough.In its new report, it concludes: “The government’s response raises serious questions about Qatar’s willingness to protect the hundreds of thousands of migrant workers living in the country. If abuse on a flagship World Cup project does not merit investigation and action, it is unlikely abuses that do not attract the international spotlight will be dealt with in an effective manner.” The main contractor on the Khalifa stadium is a joint venture between Six Construct, a subsidiary of Belgian company Besix, and Midmac, a Qatari construction company. Other companies are contracted to carry out specific tasks, including Malaysian company Eversendai. In turn, it used at least two “labour supply companies”. They are effectively agencies that sponsor a number of migrant workers to come to Qatar and hire them out to other companies. As the report points out, the worst examples of abuse are often found buried beneath layers of sub-contractors. The landscaping work on the Aspire Zone is being done by Nakheel Landscapes, a Qatari company. The work on the Aspire Zone is not an official World Cup project. In its response to Amnesty, Fifa pointed out the achievements of the supreme committee in introducing minimum welfare standards, the commitment by the new Fifa president, Gianni Infantino, to integrate labour rights specifically into the bidding process for the 2026 World Cup and the formation of a 2022 Fifa World Cup sustainability working group.“While Fifa cannot and indeed does not have the responsibility to solve all the societal problems in a host country of a Fifa World Cup, Fifa has taken concrete action and is fully committed to do its utmost to ensure that human rights are respected on all Fifa World Cup sites and operations and services directly related to the Fifa World Cup,” said Fifa’s head of sustainability, Federico Addiechi. A Fifa spokesman added that dialogue over improvements to workers welfare was a “ongoing process”.“Challenges remain, but Fifa is confident that the structures and processes set up so far by the supreme committee for Delivery and Legacy, which is the entity responsible for the delivery of Fifa World Cup infrastructure, provide a good basis to monitor labour rights of migrant workers on Fifa World Cup stadium construction sites,” he said.“These processes include the workers’ welfare standards in place since 2014, a compliance check for all tenderers, regular reporting that is publicly available and a four-tier system of auditing. This approach and these measures have been discussed with the key stakeholders, including Amnesty International.”The spokesman added: “Furthermore, Fifa will continue to urge the competent governmental authorities in Qatar and other stakeholders to also take action and ensure that such standards become the benchmark for construction projects in Qatar.”In a response to Amnesty, Midmac said: “We admire the work Amnesty International does and are fully committed to ensuring our entire workforce is treated with the dignity and respect they deserve.” It said that where a sub-contractor was not willing to correct deficiencies it would immediately stop any collaboration with them. It said “terminating a sub-contract agreement is the strongest message we can send to those who are found to be non-compliant”.Six Construct said it had terminated the contracts of some sub-contractors as a result of Amnesty’s investigation, while Eversendai said it had stopped dealing with the two labour supply companies, had no intention of working with them in future, and would engage direct labour “wherever possible”. It said it was now in full compliance with welfare standards. Nakheel said it was committed to making improvements to its employee conditions but in the absence of Amnesty sharing relevant information “we wholly deny abuse of any of our workers on the Aspire maintenance project”.The Aspire Zone Foundation said it would be working “hand in hand” with the supreme committee to launch a number of positive initiatives across all World Cup related projects.Qatar’s 2022 supreme committee said it had called for an “immediate and comprehensive review of the application and enforcement” of its workers’ welfare standards among all contractors, sub-contractors and labour supply companies. In a statement it said that it is “committed to ensuring the health, safety and well-being of every worker on World Cup projects”, that “the tone of Amnesty International’s latest assertions paint[s] a misleading picture” and “the conditions reported were not representative of the entire work force on Khalifa”. The supreme committee argued that Amnesty focused on just four of the 40 companies that work on the stadium and that many of the problems identified by the NGO had already been rectified by the time it approached it with the findings some months later. Last week,  or face a possible United Nations investigation that could see it become the fifth country to face a formal inquiry by the International Labour Organisation.The move followed an ILO delegation to the Gulf state this month that also found migrant workers stranded for months without pay and stripped of their passports. </content>
<class_name>Qatar,Middle East and North Africa,World Cup 2022,World Cup,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:01:36+0100</date>
<title>Migrant workers suffer 'appalling treatment' in Qatar World Cup stadiums, says Amnesty</title>
<content>Chelsea’s hopes of recalling Andreas Christensen from his loan spell at  are set to be dashed by the player, with the Denmark defender keen to continue pursuing first-team opportunities with the Bundesliga club.Christensen, signed from Brondby as a 15-year-old in 2012, joined Gladbach on a two-year loan deal last summer without break clauses after signing a long-term contract at Stamford Bridge and has started 24 games there. The 19-year-old centre-half has also featured in the  and Juventus, with his performances having attracted scouts from Bayern Munich and clubs in Spain.So impressive have the reports of his progress been in Germany that Chelsea have been exploring ways to curtail the loan agreement after 12 months, potentially with  – currently on a year-long spell with Watford – moving to Gladbach effectively as a replacement. Chelsea are planning for life without John Terry, whose contract expires in the summer, and have lost Kurt Zouma most likely until October after he suffered knee ligament damage, so are seeking to reinforce the defensive ranks to be inherited by their incoming manager, presumed to be Antonio Conte.Cutting short the loan would need agreement from all three parties but, whereas Gladbach might have considered an offer, Christensen is understood to be more inclined to remain in Germany in the knowledge he will benefit from regular football for a further season. The Dane, capped four times, is making that decision on the assumption that, once the new manager is granted transfer funds and Zouma returns to fitness, he may find himself the third- or fourth-choice centre-back at Stamford Bridge and reduced to appearances in the domestic cup competitions at best. will compete with Manchester City for Everton’s John Stones again this summer and Conte would like to be reunited with Leonardo Bonucci, whom he coached at Juventus. The Turin club will attempt to resist that interest.There is interest also in the Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly and Roma’s Kostas Manolas. Koulibaly is considering a new contract at Napoli that would include a hefty buyout clause for the 24-year-old set in excess of £30m.</content>
<class_name>Chelsea,Borussia Mönchengladbach,European club football,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T17:46:25+0100</date>
<title>Chelsea in battle to recall Andreas Christensen from Mönchengladbach</title>
<content>It happened in little more than a heartbeat and when it did, Martin O’Neill and plenty of others could feel the palpitations. The Republic of Ireland goalkeeper Rob Elliot lay stricken on the Aviva Stadium turf, having changed direction to spring to his left in a doomed attempt to keep out Miroslav Stoch’s opening goal for Slovakia during .It was a routine action, the sort Elliot has performed countless times for  but here fate decreed there would be an explosion of pain in the player’s right knee ligaments.Elliot’s season is over, with Newcastle having confirmed he has torn the anterior cruciate ligament and will be “out for a number of months”. He will be a bystander during Newcastle’s Premier League survival fight and Ireland’s participation at the European Championship in France. “When I found out it was my cruciate ligament, that’s when the tears came,” Elliot said. “There was a wave of emotion, knowing I would miss the rest of the season with Newcastle and the Euros with Ireland.”O’Neill, the Ireland manager, described the situation as “cruel” and it also served to reinforce how precarious the life as a top professional can be. Elliot has impressed for Newcastle since  in October, after the Dutchman also suffered a season-ending cruciate ligament injury, but he must now follow his team-mate on the rehabilitation cycle.Rafael Benítez, the Newcastle manager, will likely turn to Karl Darlow, starting at Norwich City on Saturday. The 25-year-old has played only twice for the club. “I messaged Karl as soon as I knew about my injury because I wanted him to know and to be ready,” Elliot said. “I know how good a goalkeeper he is already and how good he is going to be.”O’Neill also lost the strikers Kevin Doyle and Daryl Murphy in  to a badly gashed shin and calf trouble respectively. The injuries are not serious enough to undermine their selection prospects for Euro 2016 but this is a nervous time for O’Neill and he admitted he would be on tenterhooks between now and the end of the domestic season. He will name his squad for the finals on 28 May – the day after the home friendly against Holland.“Naturally, from here on, because time is now closing up, any report of injuries or if I happen to be at a game when one of our players gets injured, I’ll just curse my luck and get on with it,” O’Neill said. “I can’t do anything about it. Will I be nervous for the next two months? Very much so. We have picked up three injuries during these games and if I’m thinking like a club manager, it will be a major disappointment, particularly for Newcastle to find they have lost their goalkeeper. Particularly one who was playing so well.“Mick McCarthy [the Ipswich manager] will say to me that’s the nature of the game and, to be fair, Murphy won’t miss too many games. But every game he might miss is important for Ipswich as they try to get into the play-offs. And just when you thought Kevin Doyle was trying to make an impression he goes and gets injured. That’s the way it is.”O’Neill could be more upbeat about the way his team performed over the two friendlies against fellow  qualifiers, particularly in the first half against Slovakia. Having used a 4-4-2 formation against Switzerland, he went back to a 4-3-1-2 against the Slovaks and his team looked more secure and cohesive with the extra strength in midfield.With the full-backs providing the width, a platform was created for Wes Hoolahan to pull the strings behind the strikers and it seems likely O’Neill will begin the Euros, where Ireland face Sweden, Belgium and Italy, with this system.“We were going to be outnumbered in the middle of the field against Switzerland but we were not against Slovakia, with the system we had,” O’Neill said. “We were going to have a fair amount of the ball and I felt we dealt with it very well in the first half.“When Wes is on form, he is an excellent addition for us but he’s not the only one who can actually play. If Wes had started in a game in which we had played just two midfield players, like we did against Switzerland, he might have struggled because he might not have been able to get the ball.“Alan Judge worked tirelessly [on the flank] against Switzerland but we didn’t get the ball often enough to him in positions were he could be really dangerous. That might have been a disappointment to the lad. But all the elements were right for someone to get on the ball against Slovakia.”Hoolahan, the 33-year-old Norwich City midfielder, has said that he will consider retiring from the international game after the Euros but O’Neill would urge him to stick around. “There would be no call from me for him to end his international career,” O’Neill said. “Wes is kind of young because he hasn’t played an enormous amount of games for one reason or another. If it comes round to it and that’s what he’s feeling, I’d say to him there’s no reason for him to consider doing that.”</content>
<class_name>Newcastle United,Republic of Ireland,Euro 2016,Martin O'Neill,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T22:51:34+0100</date>
<title>Newcastle’s Rob Elliot in tears after knee injury rules out Euro 2016</title>
<content>1) In memory of : a Johan Cruyff special. The ; the goal  in the 1974 World Cup;  against Atlético Madrid in 1974 – one of the moments celebrated in the superb Cruyff documentary ; the Ajax v Juventus ; the now much- for Ajax in 1982; the  for the New York Cosmos against the World All Stars, in 1978; just two touches needed ; For Barcelona  in 1973; all the ; the  in1982; his ; effortless for ; 14 minutes  set to music and one of football’s greatest players parts  and .2) Victoria’s Peter Handscomb’s double hit in the Sheffield Shield final against South Australia was an , improved rather nicely by being given the . 3) Slightly shy Jordanian interviewer , including having to manoeuvre him to face the camera, in a post-match interview, after the latter led Jordan to  over Bangladesh on his debut as their manager.4)  Cristiano Ronaldo gives this Canadian fan an absolutely unique memory from her visit to the Bernabéu.5) Some remarkable  as this driver loses his brakes at Sebring, goes crashing through gates back onto the public roads and then keeps control to head back toward the pits. Elsewhere, just for fun, Bruno Senna and Scott Speed mess about at the Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez circuit in Mexico City.6) Excellent short doc on the story of Mexico’s FC Juárez: .1) Zlatan  even when messing about in training for Sweden.2) Petrolheads, settle down for a treat with this absolutely glorious colour footage from . A race that featured some of the all-time greats, including Graham Hill, Jack Brabham, Chris Amon, John Surtees, Jackie Stewart, Jim Clark and Denny Hulme.3) Gone but not, it seems, entirely forgotten: “. Newsreel Footage of this amalgam of American and Australian Rules football, designed to let servicemen from each country compete against one another during the second world war, is all that remains of the short-lived code.4) He’s a big man and he’s in awesome shape: a magnificent  for Parramatta Eels in the NRL.5) With Shane Watson having now  the lovers and haters can finally take a deep breath and move on. Watto certainly had trouble with what became known as  and subsequent decisions , indeed, once he was even LBW  .... But he could also be destructive, particularly in limited-overs games, as shown here  and here .6) Retro cycling tandem sprint at the 1982 World Track Championships, with some  in maintaining control when the wheels start coming off. Which can be .TheCedarRoom, Vesuvial, GrahamClayton, BlackCaeser, YorkerBouncer, Dormant4, brilliantusernamepun.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:48:51+0100</date>
<title>Johan Cruyff on film, Cristiano Ronaldo is smashing and cricket's thuglife</title>
<content> has sprung to the defence of Louis van Gaal and urged fans to be patient during Manchester United’s current tribulations.United are only a point off the top four in sixth place and  away from a Wembley FA Cup semi-final but exited the Champions League , were knocked out of the Europa League  and lost to Middlesbrough .There has been growing unrest among large sections of the support about Van Gaal’s handling of the team and the way they play but Ferguson, who still attends almost every match home and away, insisted they should not be too quick to judge.“It is dead easy to be critical,” the club’s former manager told Sky Sports. “You have to be realistic about some things. The number of injuries he has had: Phil Jones has played only seven games this season, Ashley Young, [Antonio] Valencia, [Luke] Shaw, these are big losses. It doesn’t matter which team you are, if you have players missing of that calibre it has to have an impact on the team.“The other aspect which is always easy to forget, there are five new players in their first season at United and two are young players in [Anthony] Martial and Memphis [Depay], and their promise is good.“You have to have some patience being a  fan and they have shown that over the years; in Matt Busby’s time, in my time. For 150 years of history it is worth having a couple of years on the quiet side of success because they will always come back and come back strong.”One of the positives to come out of Van Gaal’s injury problems is the emergence of a number of youth team players who have had to be drafted in by the manager. Among them is Marcus Rashford, the local-born 18-year-old forward who has scored five goals in eight appearances.Ferguson said: “He’s given nine young players their debut – I think the future is good. Rashford is an example of what I think is Manchester United. They are the one club in England who will always identify a Rashford and give a young kid a chance – there is no better club in England at giving young kids a chance. Rashford is a sensation and one of the best in years.”United’s bid to regain their domestic dominance could be hampered further next season by the arrival of Pep Guardiola at Manchester City. While Ferguson admits their “noisy neighbours” have pulled off a great move in securing the services of the former Barcelona and current Bayern Munich coach, he sounded a word of caution to the Catalan.“Man City have made a real coup in getting him but Pep won’t find it easy, English football is not easy,” he said. “Every foreign coach that has come to England will tell you that. Pep will be a success but I don’t think he’ll ever replicate what he did at Barcelona because that was a high standard – they were the best.“Pep will improve City but Arsenal, Liverpool, Chelsea, Tottenham will want to do something and will be desperate to win the league next season as much as City, so for Pep there is not a guarantee they can win the league.”</content>
<class_name>Manchester United,Sir Alex Ferguson,Louis van Gaal,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:41:14+0100</date>
<title>Manchester United fans should back Louis van Gaal, says Alex Ferguson</title>
<content>Garry Monk is understood to be interested in the vacant Aston Villa job. The 37-year-old is looking to get back into management after being, and would not be fazed by the prospect of replacing Rémi Garde –  – despite the club’s likely relegation from the Premier League.It is believed Monk would relish the chance to help Villa rebuild, having spent 11 years at Swansea and aided their long-term development after joining as a player when they were in League Two.Villa are weighing up their next move as they search for their fourth manager in 13 months, with Eric Black placed in charge of the side for Saturday’s visit of Chelsea. The former Leicester manager Nigel Pearson and David Moyes, who was sacked by Real Sociedad last November, are also in the frame.Villa are 12 points from safety with only seven games left and appear destined to drop out of the top flight for the first time since 1987.The new board member David Bernstein, adviser Brian Little and the former Football Association executive Adrian Bevington are reportedly in charge of filling the managerial vacancy, with Villa understood to be looking at someone with Championship experience.Monk has not managed in the Championship but knows the league having captained Swansea to promotion via the play-offs in 2011 after joining when they were in the fourth tier in 2004. He left the Liberty Stadium last December after 77 games in charge, with the club 15th in the table, following a run of one win in 11 matches.Garde departed Villa by mutual consent on Tuesday and the Frenchman won only three of his 23 games in charge having succeeded Tim Sherwood in November. Sherwood’s final match was a 2-1 defeat by Monk’s Swansea side while Villa have not climbed off the bottom of the Premier League table since Garde was appointed.</content>
<class_name>Garry Monk,Aston Villa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:07:24+0100</date>
<title>Garry Monk interested in replacing Rémi Garde at Aston Villa</title>
<content>Five members of the US women’s soccer team have filed a federal wage-discrimination complaint against US Soccer after it was revealed the World Cup winners were paid four times less than their male counterparts last year.The action – submitted Wednesday by Alex Morgan, Carli Lloyd, Megan Rapinoe, Becky Sauerbrunn and Hope Solo on behalf of the entire team – references figures from the federation’s 2015 financial report, which showed the reigning World Cup and Olympic champions received far less money than the men’s team – despite generating nearly $20m more in revenue.“Recently, it has become clear that the federation has no intention of providing us equal pay for equal work,” Rapinoe said in a press release announcing the filing.“In this day and age, it’s about equality,” Solo said Thursday in an appearance on NBC’s Today show. “It’s about equal rights. It’s about equal pay. We’re pushing for that. We believe now the time is right because we believe it’s our responsibility for women’s sports and specifically for women’s soccer to do whatever it takes to push for equal pay and equal rights. And to be treated with respect.”“I’ve been on this team for a decade and a half, and I’ve been through numerous CBA negotiations, and honestly, not much has changed,” Solo said. “We continue to be told we should be grateful just to have the opportunity to play professional soccer, to get paid for doing it.Jeffrey Kessler, the players’ lawyer, described US Soccer’s salary structure as “unfair” and “discriminatory”.“In early January, the Women’s National Team Players Association submitted a reasonable proposal for a new CBA that had equal pay for equal work as its guiding principal,” he said. “US Soccer responded by suing the players in an effort to keep in place the discriminatory and unfair treatment they have endured for years.”The federation said in a statement that it had not seen the complaint and couldn’t address specifics.“We are disappointed about this action,” a spokesman for the governing body said. “We have been a world leader in women’s soccer and are proud of the commitment we have made to building the women’s game in the United States over the past 30 years.”</content>
<class_name>USA women's football team,USA,Equal pay,US sports,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:12:00+0100</date>
<title>US women's soccer team accuses federation of wage discrimination</title>
<content>Sunderland’s Emmanuel Eboué has received notice that his short-term contract with the club will be terminated after  handed the player a one-year ban. The sanction, which arrived just 22 days after the player signed for the north-east club, was announced after Eboué failed to pay a former agent.The 32-year-old Ivorian defender, who only signed for the club as , was banned by Fifa’s disciplinary committee after a protracted dispute involving non-payments to his former representative Sébastien Boisseau.In a statement,  said: “Sunderland AFC has been advised by the Football Association that Emmanuel Eboué has been placed under an immediate suspension from football and all football-related activity for a period of one year, by Fifa.“The suspension relates to a monetary dispute which precedes his time at Sunderland AFC and was not something that the club was made aware of by the player. Eboué signed a contract with Sunderland AFC until the end of the current season and the club has therefore given notice of its intention to terminate the contract. The player has two weeks in which to appeal this decision.”The case was heard by the Court of Arbitration for Sport but Eboué’s appeal was dismissed and Fifa has now ordered that the ban be imposed for a year, or as long as it takes the former Arsenal full-back to settle the debt with Boisseau.According to the governing body, Eboué was originally ordered to pay the undisclosed amount in July 2013, then fined SFr30,000 (£21,650) in September 2014 for failing to comply with the decision and given four months to settle the debut.Even if Eboué’s appeal against the termination of his contract is successful, any ban could see his short-term contract expire at the end of the season without the player having featured for the club.The news will have come as another blow to the manager Sam Allardyce, who recruited the experienced defender to assist in the club’s battle for survival in the Premier League. Last month Sunderland sacked the former England midfielder Adam Johnson following  of sexual activity with a child, and the player .</content>
<class_name>Sunderland,Fifa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:44:08+0100</date>
<title>Emmanuel Eboué’s contract terminated by Sunderland amid 12-month Fifa ban</title>
<content>The Can-Do  is a circular blade and cog fixed to a plastic disc. When clamped to the upper rim of a can, the cutting device orbits the drum until its upper surface is severed.Anything a can can do, Can-Do does better. Look, it’s a can opener, what do you want?Modern life can feel like a treadmill of novelty variation, like Comic Relief red noses for a less good cause. I guess artificial lungs and contactless cards and slipper socks are OK. But sometimes I find myself pouring milk into a single-serve, waxed-paper porridge pouch – containing mostly sugar and crack cocaine, I think – and the “fill to here” line makes me feel singularly depressed. Is all the good stuff invented already? Innovation may be a double-edged concept, but this week I found a double-edged cutting device that successfully reinvents the wheel – or, at least, the circle. It’s a space-saving can opener, shaped like a mini air-hockey paddle with the volume of a scone.Well, traditional can openers are awful. They’re large and cumbersome, like outmoded Victorian obstetrics equipment. They hold a certain fascination – the meshed teeth on the head are like the exposed face of a monstrous nematode – but they’re the ugliest thing in the kitchen. At best, they’re reminiscent of pruning shears.Can-Do is pretty. Operation is familiar, too, with the piercing clench and the rotating screw. But it sits neatly above the can, the handle built in, with no arms. The design is elegant, so petite and curvy. You could call it the Kylie Minogue of can manipulators, but women-to-cookware comparisons are a hot-button issue. Speaking of hot buttons, this has one, which pops out when Can-Do is locked on. After cutting, the severed head is gripped in place; press the button and the lid is flicked disdainfully into the bin. You never handle the sharp edge by hand – a nice touch, literally. It’s easy to clean, simple, space-efficient and affordable. The name is a bit Scrappy-Doo for my liking, but it’s a pun, so I approve. Can-Do has more class than the Ucas handbook, and opens a can of whoop-ass on everything else around.I went looking for cans to test this on; they all have ring-pulls nowadays.Counter, with planted flag. Was not the humble Sherpa Everest’s true conqueror? </content>
<class_name>Food & drink,Homes,Gadgets,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T12:32:22+0100</date>
<title>Kitchen gadgets review: Can-Do – a cut above ordinary can openers</title>
<content>he past, it is said, is another country. Nowhere is this more true than in Britain’s relationship with bread. In 2002, the launch of Parisian bakery Poilâne’s  in London . Priced at almost £10 a loaf, this sourdough, made with a starter that was then 70 years old, seemed utterly fantastical.But no one is laughing now. , and you can buy a sourdough loaf in Asda for £1.40. If we are not quite a nation of sourdough addicts – it remains, for most, a posh weekend treat – we have definitely embraced the idea of slow-proved, natural loaves fermented with live starters that teem with billions of wild yeasts and  bacteria. Visit benchmark bakeries such as St John in London, Hart’s in Bristol or Price’s in Ludlow, Shropshire, and you will encounter revelatory sourdoughs with chewy crusts, airy, elastic interiors and profound, complex flavours – breads that would score eight or nine out of 10 in this test. Bakers skilfully manipulate the precise sourness in their breads, but many of us now crave the distinctive lactic tang of San Francisco-style sourdoughs.Some argue that sourdough is already a victim of its own success. Most supermarkets now sell the loafs on their bakery counters, but campaigners pushing for an  maintain that many of these loaves are industrially produced imposters, made with bland, commercial bakers’ yeasts and unnecessary ingredients and additives, rather than simply flour, salt, water and natural yeast. Andrew Whitley, co-founder of the Real Bread Campaign, refers to such breads as “pseudough”. True, there is no legal definition of sourdough, and retailers are not obliged to list the ingredients of breads baked instore. But are the results really that bad? We tested a selection of supermarket sourdoughs to sort the staff of life from the chaff and strife.This smells fresh-baked and wholesome, and has a promisingly astringent sourdough aroma. The slices are moist and springy. However, it lacks the large holes you expect in a bread leavened with an energetic yeast, and is less impressive still in the mouth. There is some vague lactic action going on – it just about gets your saliva glands going – but it is a fleeting, one-dimensional, simulacrum sourness. Beyond that, for a rye-spiked sourdough, its flavour is dull. Blindfolded, you may well struggle to differentiate this from any white farmhouse loaf.It looks the rustic part: an unevenly shaped, flour-dusted boule with a properly pot-holed interior. It smells earthy, too, but, again, more like a farmhouse loaf than a spiky sourdough. The crust has a reasonable chew, and the bread has decent texture, but the flavour is bland. It lacks all but the faintest sourness and any compelling supplementary complexity. Full marks for listing the ingredients online, but perhaps Waitrose should drop the milk, rice flour and “mono- and diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides of fatty acids” (a commercial baking aid) and get back to basics.A curio, this. It is a white, sliced loaf made with a sourdough starter, presumably aimed at customers who have heard that sourdough is trendy, but still demand convenient, rectilinear sandwich bread. In terms of depth of flavour, it has a marginal edge over standard white sliced (6/10 on that criterion), but in all other ways – its sweetly milky, slightly salty taste; the dampness typical of plastic-wrapped factory breads – it bears as much relation to sourdough as Michael Bublé does to Frank Sinatra.A stealth loaf. It has a discrete edge, but otherwise smells indistinct. Sliced, it looks unappealingly tight-knit and uniform. A label that reads: “Previously frozen – contains flavouring”, does not bode well. Yet it delivers a distinct sourness, one that almost prickles on the back of the tongue. No, it is not the boldest sourdough going, but that bristly lactic tang, allied to various robust, darker flavours more common in wholemeal and rye breads, means that, in its class, this is an unusually vibrant loaf.You may have a sentimental attachment to this stout loaf, as it was one of the first sourdoughs available nationally. Four years on, it is the ageing lothario of the sourdough scene. It still looks ruggedly handsome, and smells good, but beneath the golden, Mediterranean tan its powers are fading. There is now a big gap between the dazzling impact of the best artisan sourdoughs and this meek approximation of the style. It offers a thin hum of acidity, underdeveloped bready flavours and a modest baked oomph in the crust.For a supermarket loaf, this has remarkable provenance. It is made with an 18-year-old starter. It goes through three stages of fermentation. It contains no commercial yeasts or additives. However, it is merely so-so bread. It has a sound baked, yeasty aroma, and a promising oatmeal colour within, but the texture is too dense (it also has a doughy, Plasticine quality). What’s more, beyond a brief, upfront sourness and intermittent bursts of bready character from the crust, the flavour flatlines.Fragrantly lactic as you open the bag, evenly tanned and impressively pockmarked in a way that suggests yeasty vigour, this, in appearance, is probably closest to the sourdoughs you see topped with smashed avocado in glossy mags. If the flavour does not quite deliver fully on that promise, it is ... not bad. The pleasingly bouncy slices have a solid, milled-grains flavour, and a reasonably complex, winey sourness. This fades more rapidly than in the Sainsbury’s contender, but it is close.</content>
<class_name>Bread,Food & drink,Supermarkets,Retail industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:45:08+0100</date>
<title>Sourdough taste test: can supermarkets do artisan bread?</title>
<content>, prime minister of Canada,  and man with a very nice face, can seemingly do no wrong. He appears to have the world’s media in rapture daily, with the latest burst of . A picture of Trudeau balancing on his wrists on a conference table (in what is known as a peacock pose) first tweeted in 2013 has resurfaced online this week. Although it’s not gone quite as viral as it might have had he been doing the downward-facing dog.Trudeau isn’t the only politician aiming for modern-day guru status; yoga appears to have become quite the rage among global leaders. Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, is not just an enthusiastic yoga practitioner, but also an advocate for the practice’s healing properties; he has . Modi also successfully pushed for the , which is now on 21 June. Ban Ki-moon, secretary general of the UN, . He did a rather nice asana.Where’s there’s a whiff of a PR-friendly trend, you can expect to see David Cameron attempting to get in on the action. And, indeed, the PM has been , although it is not clear whether he did any yoga poses, or whether it was more yoga posturing.If you’re going to be a world leader, regular shows of strength are part of the job. They’re a sort of political peacocking that demonstrates to other world leaders that you could probably have them in a fight, should things get a bit dodgy in Davos. Vladimir Putin regularly scorches our collective eyeballs with .While yoga may be a far more subtle way of signalling strength than swimming in ice lakes or horse riding in Siberia, the current trend actually makes a lot of sense. Indeed, there are few sports more suited for politicians.First, there’s the fact that yoga lets one project serenity, strength and wisdom simply by sitting on the floor with your legs crossed. You can also do yoga in a suit, and without any special equipment. This opens up a world of spontaneous PR opportunities. If things are going badly in parliament, you can simply stand on your head in the corridor as distraction. also has the advantage of being ultra-democratic. It’s practised by the uber-rich, the not-very-rich and kids who have just got back from an enriching gap year in India. You can do yoga whatever your age, whatever your fitness levels. It doesn’t alienate people in the way that hunting, polo or hang-gliding might.Then there are the holistic aspects of yoga – helpful in turbulent times. I am sound of body and mind, yoga says. I am flexible. I am calm. I am balanced. I will bend over backwards to help out my people.</content>
<class_name>Yoga,Justin Trudeau,Narendra Modi,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T16:48:53+0100</date>
<title>Why Justin Trudeau and other world leaders love a yoga pose</title>
<content>Heston Blumenthal is the name, face and essence of his restaurant the Fat Duck and its unique food offering. So, when you’re told that Heston is moving his entire restaurant, including all staff and even the actual cutlery, from London to Melbourne for six months, you naturally expect the great man to be in attendance. Blumenthal was overseas on the day of my visit to the Fat Duck. This is very disappointing. Call me naive, but I want the man in the kitchen, working the room and sitting at my table listening to my stories. Him not being there is like going to see the Rolling Stones and being told on arrival that Jon Stevens is filling in for Mick Jagger, who couldn’t make it tonight. We paid to see you, Heston, at your restaurant – so you should be there.A sitting at Blumenthal’s restaurant in Crown Casino costs $525 for the 14 courses of food, with alcohol extra. We didn’t elect to go with the recommended matched wines. Instead, we drank my selection of bottles of local champagne, riesling and pinot noir with a couple of margaritas chucked in for good measure. Drinks cost us an additional $220 a person. So was it worth it?I thought dining at the Fat Duck was a brilliant once-in-a-lifetime experience that was unforgettable and worth the considerable investment. I assure you that if I hadn’t spent that $750-odd on lunch this week, I definitely wouldn’t have $750 in my savings account at the end of the year. All your money always goes. I’m glad it went this way.The restaurant is fantastic in that you feel like you’re dining almost alone. There appears to be only about a dozen tables and they are all very roomy (four people could have easily fitted on the two-person couch I was on) and tables face in different directions so you feel as you’re the only ones there. And the service is brilliant. Dozens of staff are all over you in a friendly, informed and tolerant fashion. They need to be tolerant because – let’s face it – after six hours we were all blind drunk.Our table was the one table chosen for a tour of the kitchen, which was very shiny, very quiet and full of people working diligently in their own identified workstations. But not seeing Blumenthal in the kitchen or out on the floor is like winning the golden ticket to Willy Wonka’s Chocolate Factory and being informed that Mr Wonka is having the day off. When I asked the head waiter where Blumenthal was, he said: “Sorry, he has been called back to London for a short period.” Devastated!But purists will argue it should all be about the food, not the name. So how was it? From 12.30pm to 6.30pm we ate:Tiny. Kind of like a savoury malteser. Delicious.I had the vodka, lime and soda. Basically, an ice-cold meringue that tasted like the drink. You ripper!Small and tasty and inverting the concept of dessert timing. Pretty much like nothing else I have ever tasted.Small icy-pole sticks with savoury tastes. The mini Golden Gaytime tasted like duck liver pate. More gimmick than rewarding for me. Wouldn’t have minded a real Golden Gaytime, actually.My friends loved this. Thought it was amazeballs. Too rich for my tastes. I am too pedestrian for truffles. Pearls before swine, I’m afraid.Am I on I’m a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here? Tasted like mushroom to me. Was more flavoursome than expected.Marron (WA crayfish, I believe) was sumptuous. There was just too much going on for me in all the surrounding strong flavours. I don’t need a dozen competing flavours. Just saying.Nice theatre with the golden fob watch dissolving in your tea. Nothing special to taste, I thought.They made you put on earphones and listen to sea sounds while eating a huge plate of mixed raw seafood. Huge plate of food. Personally, I was hoping we were going to be played Black Sabbath’s War Pigs for a real surprise.It was at this stage that my dining companion Matt Healy said: “That’s enough, I’m done. Too full. Just stop.” I soldiered on. For Australia.Absolutely sensational. Of course you can’t screw up with lamb. Very small serving, I thought. Maybe I just wanted more because it was that good.Bizarre drink of tea that was … simultaneously hot and cold. Like the Harold Holt public swimming pool sometimes …A fancy mushroom dish. Mushrooms are pretty bloody good, let’s face it.Serving breakfast at dessert time is radical, as they say. By this stage I was getting pretty drunk, so anything that came close to bacon and eggs was most welcome. It also looked as pretty as a Renoir painting.Bring it on.And, finally, a selection of tasty individual treats that I hoovered down.So, that’s it, a six-hour journey that commences at the Fat Duck and concludes with you feeling like a fat schmuck.The service and the food are so relentlessly delivered that, unlike a normal dining experience, you don’t have time to engage in long conversations and stories. The food and the restaurant demand your attention from start to finish. (Ideal for anyone in a loveless relationship who doesn’t want to talk to his or her partner.)Lunch at the Fat Duck was a totally different experience that was worth the high cost. I loved the magic, just a pity that the magician had disappeared.</content>
<class_name>The Fat Duck,Food & drink,Melbourne holidays,</class_name>
<date>2015-03-20T02:59:30+0000</date>
<title>Heston Blumenthal's Fat Duck in Melbourne: wonderful but there's no Wizard in Oz</title>
<content> Post your answers – and new questions – below, or email them to . Please include name, address and phone number. </content>
<class_name>Fruit,Food & drink,Vegetables,Nutrition,Health & wellbeing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T15:00:12+0100</date>
<title>Does peeling the skin of fruit or veg mean losing all the goodness?</title>
<content>ooms can be as pretty as you please, but if they lack enticing little extras then they will lack soul. The details should reflect the owner so well that even if you had never met them, you could pick them out in a crowd after seeing their home.No matter the room’s function: from hallway to bedroom, personality should be layered over practicality. Details invite you to linger, take a second look and want to ask about the story behind the object. This does not mean laying out a row of pictures and calling it a day: details have power only when they come from the heart.So coat walls with the colours that make you the happiest – this can include white. Arrange a visual landscape across a mantelpiece that combines flea-market finds with an inherited treasure. Place a patterned pillow on a serious chair, wallpaper a wall with a slightly silly pattern. Do not worry about what goes with what: if it means something to you, its inclusion will always looks right.Sometimes the most effective decorating is not what you add in, but what you edit out. Details only resonate when not cohabiting alongside clutter. Ask yourself: do I really love everything in these rooms? Remove what is not essential, then begin the joyous process of layering in the little things.As these layouts from some of the world’s best designers show, you can be fearless, a little whimsical and personal. Your home isn’t just a shelter. It’s your way of saying: “Welcome to my little world.”People think that bedrooms need to be serene and sparse to inspire sleep. But a bedroom layered with colours, patterns and accessories can be just as soothing. I like to mix linen patterns – matchy-matchy gives me insomnia. I love to put in pieces that people associate with other rooms of the house, ie a small oriental rug, a glamorous lighting fixture, even an elegant painting.Think about how much time you spend in this room. Why should it not be filled with wonderful details? I never like to have anything too corporate on desks or shelves. I prefer accessories that can help organise: a pretty tray or a bowl, maybe a shell to hold stationery. Your living room should tell a story about who you are and why you love to live where you do. Try to include at least one piece that is completely fearless. Consider all the creative opportunities that come with the staircase – not just their surfaces but their often neglected edges, the bannister, the surrounding walls and the steps themselves.</content>
<class_name>Homes,Interiors,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T06:00:07+0100</date>
<title>Homes: sweat the small stuff</title>
<content>With its familiar blue veins and natural rind, it looks like stilton and tastes like stilton – albeit tangier and creamier. Yet government regulations mean that Stichelton – made in the UK to the historic recipe using unpasteurised milk – cannot be certified or labelled under that name.For years Joe Schneider, the only British cheesemaker still producing a raw-milk stilton from his Stichelton Dairy in Nottinghamshire, has been fighting for a change to the rules.Last week these “cheese wars” moved to the world stage when the Slow Food Foundation – a grassroots movement for “good, clean and fair food” – threw its support behind Schneider by launching a petition to get international public opinion behind a rethink of the regulations.Traditionally stilton, which dates back to the early 18th century, was made using unpasteurised milk. But protection by a certification trademark (PDO, or Protected Designation of Origin) means it can only be made in Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire or Leicestershire – and only to a specific recipe using pasteurised milk.“We are simply trying to right a wrong,” said Schneider. “It is so disappointing that Defra [the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs] will not support us on this. In France, the PDO is used to protect cheeses such as camembert de Normandie, which has won a battle to stop larger producers using anything other than raw milk. Only in the UK would we use the same PDO system intended to protect tradition to protect a modern method such as pasteurisation.”The petition has already attracted hundreds of signatures, including dozens of small British artisan cheese producers who oppose bureaucratic rules that, they say, stifle creativity in local production.In a week in which the UK’s largest retailer, Tesco, has been criticised for using “, the move is the latest David versus Goliath battle between food producers.Slow Food said it was backing Schneider because “stilton represents an important piece of culture. It belongs to England, to Europe, to all of us, not to the big industrial food groups. And also because his is a battle for liberty: a producer should be free to choose whether or not to pasteurise their milk and to take responsibility for that choice.”Only six dairies – under the auspices of the Stilton Cheesemakers’ Association (SCA) – are allowed to call their produce blue stilton [white stilton is also protected by a PDO]. The raw-milk version is only made by Schneider and his partner, Randolph Hodgson, the founder of Neal’s Yard Dairy.There is a distinct taste difference between the traditionally made stilton and its more modern counterparts. “Stichelton has a rich, dense and creamy paste and a delicately spiced blue, rather than an attack,” according to La Fromagerie, a cheese specialist with shops in Marylebone and Highbury, London. “Throughout the year the flavours can range from the sweet and vegetal to intensely meaty, with aromas like bacon fat. Tasting alongside the Colston Bassett stilton [one of the PDO-approved makers], you recognise that this cheese has its own individual character and is not a stilton, but a true original.”Vickie Rogerson, a founder of the Leeds-based cheese club and cafe, Homage2Fromage, said: “As a nation, we have become used to eating mass-produced cheese which is on a two-for-one deal at the supermarket. But you’d be surprised just how many British cheeses are now made using raw unpasteurised milk. Most of these are artisan dairies making small batches of cheese in a traditional hand-crafted way, using milk from local herds.”The sticking point is in the restrictive conditions of the PDO, as unpasteurised milk is used in many other English cheeses which are not protected by PDOs.Schneider made his first batch of raw milk blue cheese in 2006. He and Hodgson had set out to make raw milk stilton, but the SCA refused their request to allow raw milk stilton to be produced. So Stichelton – a made-up name – was born.Schneider produces 50 tonnes of Stilcheton a year - a drop in the ocean compared with, for example, Coslton Bassett which produces more than 450 tonnes a year. The terms of the PDO were changed after Colston Bassett switched to pasteurised milk after a contamination outbreak in 1988.In 2012, Hodgson and Schneider asked Defra to recommend to the EU that the PDO be changed to allow stilton to be made of raw milk, but that and further bids – including at the end of last year – failed.The Food Standards Agency has shown a close interest – not without controversy – in consumption of raw milk on public health grounds.Defra said: “Protected status enables our best-loved food to thrive in the international and domestic marketplace, protecting products from imitation across the EU, helping consumers recognise products as being traditional and authentic and driving sales.“While we want more British delicacies to enjoy this prestigious status, all decisions regarding changes to the protected food status must meet European legislation to guarantee their authenticity.”</content>
<class_name>Cheese,Food & drink,Food & drink industry,Small business,Farming,Food safety,Nottingham,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T00:05:01+0000</date>
<title>It looks like stilton, tastes like stilton, smells like stilton. So why is it called Stichelton?</title>
<content>Japanese food in the UK traditionally meant sushi and saké. Perhaps a few flaming-pan teriyaki dishes. More recently, ramen restaurants have emerged. What British diners might not realise, however, is that Japan does pub food as well as any nation on earth. It looks like 2016 will be the breakout year for izakaya, as Japanese gastropubs are known, which have been springing up around the UK, doling out small plates drenched in ., which opened on Kingsland High Street in east London in December, specialises in yakitori: skewers grilled over hot charcoal. But while Tokyo’s yakitori joints are often ramshackle and packed to the rafters, Jidori is sleek, minimal and decidedly Dalston. Chefs serve small plates of food straight from an open grill. True to the Japanese beak-to-tail philosophy, chicken hearts and parson’s nose (the end of the chicken’s tail) feature on the menu, as well as more traditional pieces.Brett Redman and his business partner Natalie Lee-Joe both grew up in Australia, where they were exposed to a mix of Asian cuisines. They wanted to open a local restaurant where they would want to eat regularly. “Funnily enough, 80% of people who come through the door have been to Japan and say they’ve been waiting for somewhere like this to open up,” says Lee-Joe. “We have tried to change it a bit to fit its context. In Tokyo you knock knees with everyone. We’ve tried to make it a bit more refined.”The cooking process sets these bite-sized beauties apart from other skewer foods. The meat is grilled to the point of charring, then brushed with tare – a sauce of sake, soy and mirin – before going back on the grill. The grill itself is crucial. For Jidori, Redman and Lee-Joe imported a custom-made one from a Tokyo craftsman. A highly carbonised, smokeless charcoal called binchotan helps to cook food evenly and avoids the acrid smoky taste. Most importantly, yakitori is to be enjoyed as part of a drinking session rather than in the wake of one.In the 1600s Japanese sake shops began serving customers skewers and other light bites – becoming known as izakayas – literally meaning “sitting in a sake shop”. They are now cherished all over Japan as after-work watering holes which offer inexpensive, informal dining, similar to Italian enotecas.It is a happy accident that this old-fashioned drinkers’ menu, with its focus on lean meats, rice and vegetables, fits perfectly with the high-protein, low-carb, gluten-averse dieters of London in 2016. Jidori is far from the only new izakaya on the block. Michelin-starred Jason Atherton is getting in on the act with , on the Clerkenwell Road. Meanwhile yakitori is also appearing on the tables of mainstream restaurants around the capital, such as Sexy Fish in Berkeley Square and MeatLiquor in Marylebone. These dishes have appeared in Japanese restaurants in the UK before, but they have never been taken so seriously.If any individual can be held responsible for the recent surge, it is Ross Shonhan, whose restaurants Shackfuyu and , which began life as pop-ups, serve western-style izakaya food and complement his  ramen restaurants. “Flesh & Buns opened in 2013. We were ahead of the curve. Existing places were either very traditional or scrimped on quality – casual Japanese hadn’t been explored,” says Shonhan. The risk paid off, and Londoners were soon queuing round the block.Shonhan will open his fourth Bone Daddies branch in Old Street in March, serving kushikatsu alongside ramen. A new addition to his repertoire, these are skewered morsels of meat or vegetables which are panko-breadcrumbed and fried. “We’re trying to challenge people’s perceptions, to show them that Japan doesn’t just do sushi,” he says. “People might not consider kushikatsu Japanese, but their food culture is always evolving to adopt foreign styles and ingredients.” Ramen is a good example: brought to Japan from China after the second Sino-Japanese war.More surprisingly, given how London-obsessed our food scene is, at least one izakaya-entrepreneur only succeeded when he moved out. David Miney is a former Oxo Tower head chef who tried out his  izakaya idea there before moving it to Soho, where it rave reviews but did not turn over enough business to survive. Last June he moved it south, to Preston Street in Brighton, where it has been a great success. Contrary to Miney’s predictions, the Brighton crowd loved the more left-field items on the menu, like chicken skin and gizzards.“What I have here is truer to the izakaya philosophy than what I had in London,” says Miney. “People are free to get merry and have a good time. There should be no rules – if you want to eat with your fingers, go for it. Customers come in for quick beer after work and end up ordering seven dishes and staying all night. It puts the fun back into dining.”</content>
<class_name>Japanese food and drink,Food & drink,Street food,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T06:00:07+0100</date>
<title>Going crazy for izakayas</title>
<content>Normal Sudoku rules apply, except the numbers in the cells contained within grey lines add up to the figures in the corner. No number can be repeated within each shape formed by grey lines.For a helping hand call our solutions line on 0906 200 83 83. Calls will cost £1.03 per minute, plus your phone company’s access charge. Calls from other networks may vary and mobiles will be considerably higher. Service supplied by ATS. Call 0330 333 6946 for customer service (charged at standard rate).Buy next week’s Observer  to see the completed puzzle.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T00:01:01+0000</date>
<title>Observer killer sudoku</title>
<content> What meet at the Meeting of the Waters by Manaus? Which sculptor has exclusive rights to the darkest shade of black? What was the Mercury Theatre’s 1938 Halloween radio broadcast? Which British bird of prey is known as the skydancer? Climbing Mount Midoriyama is the aim of which television series? Who wrote the poem To Flush, My Dog? Which crop is destroyed by the boll weevil? Which boxing epic took place in the Stade du 20 Mai? Bugs Bunny et al; Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons; PSG? Alexandria; Naples; Raj; LA; Frederica? JMB; NEAB; AEB; SEG; ULSEB; OCSEB; MEG? Alligator; Rum; Marauder? John Ford; Joseph L  Mankiewicz; Alejandro González Iñárritu? Marathon; Salamis; Plataea; Thermopylae? Sarkisian; Adu; Ciccone; Gudmundsdottir; Adkins; Fenty? Rio Negro and the Amazon (Solimões).  Anish Kapoor (Vantablack).  Orson Welles’s War Of The Worlds.  Hen harrier.  Ninja Warrior.  Elizabeth Barrett Browning.  Cotton.  Rumble in the Jungle (Kinshasa, 1974).  Blanc: voiced by Mel B; founded by Raymond B; managed by Laurent B.  Literary quartets: Lawrence Durrell; Elena Ferrante; Paul Scott; James Ellroy; AS Byatt.  Former examination boards.  Adding Red gives Grand National winner.  Won consecutive Best Director Oscars.  Ancient battles between Greeks and Persians.  Surnames of mononymous singers: Cher; Sade; Madonna; Björk; Adele; Rihanna.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>What links Alligator, Rum and Marauder? The Weekend quiz</title>
<content>Fill the grid so that every row, every column and every 3x3 box contains the numbers 1 to 9.For a helping hand call our solutions line on 0906 200 83 83. Calls cost £1.03 per minute from a BT landline. Calls from other networks may vary and mobiles will be considerably higher. Service supplied by ATS. Call 0330 333 6946 for customer service (charged at standard rate).Buy the next issue of the Guardian or subscribe to our  to see the completed puzzle.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:01:36+0100</date>
<title>Sudoku 3397 hard</title>
<content>Fill the grid so that each run of squares adds up to the total in the box above or to the left. Use only numbers 1-9, and never use a number more than once per run (a number may reoccur in the same row, in a separate run).Buy the Guardian next Friday or subscribe to our  to see the completed puzzle.</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T00:01:02+0000</date>
<title>Kakuro 1,492 hard</title>
<content>When the lack of a committed partner becomes more important than your current sexual style, you will probably prioritise this quite naturally. Most likely, this process has begun already, and will intensify over the next couple of years. We all go through a series of developmental stages as our lives unfold, and with each stage comes a new challenge; yours appears to be changing from the “single” fun of one’s 20s, to the notion of stability and the desire to create a couple with the potential for longevity.This is all normal, although it is worth remembering that not everyone progresses through the same developmental stages in the same order. What you have been achieving through experimentation is a wealth of learning about who you are sexually – what excites you, and the nature of your erotic triggers. Knowing about these will help you to chose longer-term partners who truly satisfy your erotic creativity. In fact, acquiring sexual self-knowledge in this way is a smart insurance policy.</content>
<class_name>Sex,Relationships,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T08:00:19+0100</date>
<title>I have as much sex as I like – and it’s great – but I want something more</title>
<content>I’d give up, too, if I was forced to live in a bed with a bamboo, euphorbia and a cordyline, in no depth of soil with a leylandii peering in. Poor spiky things, whatever they were.It’s good that the other plants are doing well. Your best option is to add a good dose of organic matter to improve the soil. The cheapest option is homemade organic compost, but recycled green waste compost (most councils offer this) is a cheap alternative, or buy peat-free compost and load it on. The euphorbias and cordyline will resent it if you bury their stems: draw back the compost from around their bases to make a well. I’d suggest adding more cordylines and euphorbias if you have gaps, because you know these will survive. Do you have a question for Alys? Email </content>
<class_name>Gardening advice,Gardens,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Ask Alys: our howeas have given up after our neighbour put up a fence</title>
<content>itting is the new smoking – blamed for increasing the risk of heart disease and cancer, as well as diabetes and obesity. Health guidelines suggest we should spend 150 minutes a week in moderate exercise, but many of us sit down for more than half the working day – email means we don’t even have to get up to talk to anyone. So it is not surprising that there is a gap in the market.Stand-up, sit-stand and treadmill desks are all the rage.  – modified treadmill bases attached to work surfaces.  of 1.5km an hour will burn 2.6 calories a minute. Such energy expenditure does not come cheap: desks cost upwards of £1,000. But do they make people more active and healthier, or are they this year’s corporate gimmick?The research so far is inconclusive. The benefits may be more myth than reality.  looked at 26 studies with 2,174 people. They found that sit-stand desks reduced sitting by between 30 minutes and two hours a day. While this sounds impressive, the researchers say the studies mostly did not deliver the up-to-four-hours of standing that experts recommend. Standing desks were also not found to have much benefit in weight reduction – if an average-sized man and woman spent half of their eight-hour working day standing, they would spend an additional 20 kilocalories and 12 kilocalories each. This, point out the researchers, is not enough to prevent obesity or type 2 diabetes. Prolonged standing may also be difficult for people with low back pain.Treadmill work stations, though, were found to reduce sitting by nearly half an hour in the Cochrane review and found that they particularly benefited obese people, improving their levels of good cholesterol and reducing their waist circumferences.So much for the physical effects, but what about productivity and brainpower? Exercise is traditionally thought to improve the ability to think – but generally only after you have stopped doing it. (moving at 1.5mph) or a sitting desk found that the sedentary group did better at recalling lists of words and working out mental maths problems. It was easier to concentrate and remember from a sitting position. Unsurprisingly, it was also easier to type faster without making mistakes.So, while the benefits of standing desks may be overstated, the risks of sitting are not. You can take walking breaks throughout the day and use the stairs, whatever desk you have.</content>
<class_name>Health & wellbeing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T08:30:20+0100</date>
<title>Is a stand-up desk really healthier?</title>
<content>I am a lawyer in a specialist field and am well paid. It took me a long time to qualify and get into an area that I enjoyed. However, the work has changed substantially and the business I work for takes decisions that I am no longer comfortable with. Job security is important to me, so a move into a comparable legal role, but with a different (possibly charitable) organisation, does not appeal. I have worked in different types of legal environments and perhaps I need to conclude that the law, in spite of the dedication and effort I put in to get to a senior position, is simply not for me. I am exploring alternative careers, including in the healthcare environment. My colleagues, friends and parents are concerned I am making a decision that is too drastic and turning my back on a secure job. My current job involves a long commute by car. My employer gives me great flexibility but I don’t feel like my performance is appreciated, nor do I feel like I want to give more to the organisation. The idea of continuing in this role, or this sector, until retirement fills me with dread. Am I being naive to think that I can start a new career (including returning to university) in a new field at the age of 40? I appreciate the NHS is in a period of change (and always will be), and that the healthcare sector is poorly rewarded, but I think I would be more satisfied in a role that is more worthwhile for the good of society and may make a difference to someone’s day – or life. </content>
<class_name>Work & careers,Healthcare industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T07:00:18+0100</date>
<title>I want to leave the law behind and start afresh</title>
<content>We don’t tend to look at Easter-themed crosswords here, as they’re often prize puzzles – our policy forbids us from discussing prize puzzles until the solution has been printed and the prize despatched, and no one wants to hear about Easter fully three weeks after the 14th day of the ecclesiastical full moon, .Easter anniversaries, though, are different. If you haven’t completed , please skip to the end of this section! Crucible ties various strands together in :So, first we look at 18 across ...... and then at 26 across ...... and since, looking back at five down, we see that there is no 1,916 across or 1,916 down, we don’t need to cross-reference  number, and we understand the oxymoron as coming from some ‘poem Easter 1916’. As suggested by 18 across,  ...... and a reminder that the rising began on Easter Monday.There was more reason than usual to look for Easter eggs (in the sense of ) in . It was Good Friday, the setter was Phi – and, crucially, it was . But , circumstances did not favour a themed farewell and so we search in vain for a valediction. And we have no reason to suspect otherwise.As we say goodbye to the dead-tree Independent cryptic, the auguries seem well for of that paper’s crosswording family: we are told that the daily cryptic will  and that the splendid Inquisitor will move to the paper called the i – no word, though, has reached me of , which is a worry and which brings us to our next challenge: reader, how do you clue BEELZEBUB?Thanks for .In keeping with the humane thinking which prompted the contest, DameSweeneyEggblast offered “Heads of particular ethnicities, or perhaps literally everyone”.Others went for surface readings which took us to unexpected places, such as physical injury (baerchen’s “Folk legend in Brazil hampered by minor surgery”), the sex industry (ixioned’s “Plebs pole dancing in gym class”) and arbitrarily tough questions (ComedyPseudonym’s “What’s the population of Settle?”).The runners-up are harlobarlo’s topical “Lastly, keep Bernie so Trump will lose race” and steveran’s terse “Race relations?”; since we love a quadruple definition round here, the winner is alberyalbery’s “Public bodies race hoi polloi”.Kudos to Albery; please leave this fortnight’s entries and your pick of the broadsheet cryptics below.The first entry in our  was on  – because the solver can usually find such answers without much trouble. On occasion, though,  and disguise the definition slyly enough that the penny takes a while to drop ...... even for a SEASONED solver. Thank you, .</content>
<class_name></class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T11:19:53+0100</date>
<title>Crossword roundup: WB Yeats and a homeless Beelzebub</title>
<content>There are so many directions life can take and, while I know your friends care about you and your long-term fulfilment, there is also something to be said about perfect timing . I got married and had my first child at 36, so I am not one to say hurry. But in the same breath, I can say that biological clocks  something to consider.Have you had visions of having a child? Many children? If so, then jumping into that mindset sooner rather than later might be a good idea. I am also aware that some younger men envision themselves as young fathers and wouldn’t think twice if they found the right partner.I have always snuck in a casual question on early dates – “Do you see yourself as a dad at any point?” – and noted the answer. This is not something you can always work out later. In fact, to my mind, this is one of the top 10 important questions to ask before falling too deeply in love.It may help to divide your dating life into three categories: 1) flings (this requires staving off the bonding that happens with , so be careful); 2) boyfriends (these can last anywhere from two to three years, and the breakups are not the most fun); and 3) husband or long-term-commitment material. Number three is for when you are ready for the deep dive; and perhaps for when you are ready for children.I have had some serious fun in the first two categories. And the third has been a huge payoff, maybe  I enjoyed the first two so much. (Well, maybe not the breakups.) All this is to say that only you can know what stage or phase you are in, and when or if you want children at all. (Some of my friends wanted children only if they met the right person, and were happy not having children because they didn’t meet this person in their child-bearing years.) Whatever you choose, I wish you great fulfilment and a ton of fun. Alanis Morissette’s podcast is available at iTunes and at . Send your dilemmas about love, family or life in general to Alanis Morissette at </content>
<class_name>Relationships,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T16:00:02+0000</date>
<title>Ask Alanis Morissette: I am dating a younger man, but my friends disapprove. Help!</title>
<content>y mum, recently retired, was dumped by a man last summer after a decade together. She was devastated. In the autumn, she met a man online, and now they are selling their houses and buying a rural idyll 90 miles away from her family. I’ve just had a baby and a relationship breakup. She is the main carer for my sister, and shares caring responsibility for my disabled grandma. She says she will drive down once a week to spend a few hours with us all.I’ve tried to advise caution. Although her new chap is lovely, solvent and agreeable, she barely knows him and to be throwing her finances (shaky at best) and emotions into a relationship that is only six months old seems to me, and the rest of her friends and family, to be madness.She won’t take any advice, and is acting as if this is all perfectly normal. I fear she is living in a fantasy that will come crashing down, leaving her miles from support and financially tied to a virtual stranger. Am I to stand by and watch her make a huge mistake, or shall I continue to try to make her see that this may not be a good idea?   </content>
<class_name>Relationships,Parents and parenting,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T12:00:17+0000</date>
<title>My mum is buying a home with a new boyfriend – but she barely knows him</title>
<content>hen I started writing this column just over a year ago, I wasn’t sure how long it would last. How many questions, I wondered, would people really have about online dating? Answer: many! From getting started with online dating in middle age, to the ethics of juggling multiple online paramours, I heard about the anxious-making unreturned right-swipe, the ecstasy of finding partners for niche sexual activities and the challenge of finding partners from particular ethnic groups; I pondered the trouble of falling in love with people who are probably robots, and considered how to make your profile stand out in a field of shirtless Netflix fans.Today, I’m signing off, but before I go, here are the most important things I learned in my year as your electronic agony aunt.Many of the emails I received were from people who were concerned that they weren’t getting “enough” matches, or going on a sufficient number of dates. Of course dating online increases the pool of people you can meet with speed, but it’snot just a matter of throwing mud at a wall until some of it sticks. The fact that you have gone on dates with five people has zero bearing on whether candidate #6 will be your ideal partner.Most common in my inbox were tales of woe – from both men and women – who would go on dates with people they’d met on dating apps, thought it had gone very well, but never heard from their dates again. They were left confused, and wondering what had happened. In most cases, I think it was because the person who disappeared just wasn’t looking for anything serious. You can meet someone attractive who shares all of your interests, but if you’re not both looking for the same kind of relationship, whether that’s “marriage” or “five minutes in a bathroom stall”, one or both of you is very likely to end up disappointed. You have to make sure you’re on the same page. The earlier you do that, the better.Tinder was launched as a hookup app but has evolved to something that people use to find long-term relationships, too – I know of several real Tinder-sparked marriages. That said, judging from my mailbox, it seems to be broadly the case that among heterosexual daters, women want to use Tinder to find love and men want to use Tinder to find casual sex. Which is the ultimate mismatch. What’s the answer? Be clear about your intentions, and then everyone will be kinder and happier, and actually probably end up having more sex.Ask not: is this person who I met on Tinder yesterday my soulmate? But rather: am I having a nice time on this particular evening, and would I like to have a nice time with this person again? Movies may tell us that we should set eyes on a person and know that we love them in an instant. But expecting to know immediately whether someone you’ve met on your phone is the love of your life is unrealistic. And rejecting people because they don’t give you an instant desire to love themforever in the hopes that someone else in your phone will give you that feeling can lead to missed opportunities.Many people wrote to me at their wits’ end: they were sick of online dating, and wanted clear advice about how to find what they were looking for. But dating is a leisure activity, not a doctor’s prescription. Sometimes you just need a break from it. Return to it when you think: “Meeting new people will be fun and interesting, and if it leads to something more, that’s a plus!!” and not “Why haven’t I met the love of my life yet? My thumbs are so, so tired.” That thumb fatigue will lead you to make bad choices – for you, and for other people.Culture tends to tell us that being in a relationship is the best way to be, and yet it is somehow taboo to admit that you want to be with someone, and that you’re making an active effort to do so. Many people wrote to me about how embarrassed they are to be searching for love online. (To all the folks below the line who advised each week that people should stop looking because “love finds you when you leastexpect it”: rest assured, many people who are using dating apps haven’t been expecting it for years.) This creates a strange condition whereby people who are looking for dates online often feel a degree of disgust for other people who they meet online: what’s wrong with someone if they can’t find love in the real world? Of course this comes from a place of self-loathing, and of course it does not lead toromantic success.Many people seem to be so embarrassed about being single that they don’t ask the people who could really help them change their situation: friends, family, the people who know and love them best and want to see them happy. That doesn’t mean you have to go out with your grandmother’s handsome dentist. But it does mean that there is really no harm in saying to your best friend: can you help me with my dating profile to make sure it shows me at my best? Or: can you take anice photo of me in natural daylight where I’m smiling and relaxed andnot sitting next to a drugged tiger?No one has ever swiped right because of a drugged tiger.Love,Eva</content>
<class_name>Dating,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-10T16:26:49+0000</date>
<title>Ask Eva says goodbye: seven lessons I learned from answering your questions</title>
<content>  Now that’s a conundrum – although there are plenty who would prefer to contend with your problem rather than their own slothlike husbands’ unhealthy lifestyles. It’s hard to say: “You’re just too fit” in a way that does justice to your obvious frustration. Whatever way I try it, the phrase trips off my tongue as a compliment and even perhaps a leer.In an age when privileged humanity is battling against biology, putting enormous effort into turning back the clock, pushing our bodies to their physical limits and trying to live for ever, your husband sounds like a natural product of his time. Men’s magazines, once littered with offensive examples of objectification, now barely bother with the female form, they’re so busy objectifying their own sex. That once iconic bible to male testosterone  recently dropped the female full frontal, and I wonder if they’d fare better if they replaced their bunny centrefolds with latterday Adonises, allowing readers a closer look at the glories of their own male perfection.James Bond (Timothy Dalton and George Lazenby apart) has maintained his pole position as a world-class action hero because his creators have always managed to ensure each new manifestation encapsulated the aspirational male attributes of the day. So take that journey from rugged Sean Connery to the postmodern twinkle of perfect Pierce and then look at Daniel Craig in his skin-tight suits and biceps bulging through his body-hugging handmade shirts. With worship of the male form exceeding even Renaissance heights, this Bond is definitely today’s man.When I was a girl, a boy who even glanced in a mirror was considered suspect (David Bowie excepted), whereas now, from an early age, they have to be prised away from them. The girls in my daughter’s class are going through a braiding frenzy at present, but it’s nothing compared to the hours of dedicated work the boys put in creating quiffs at perilous slants, hairy homages to Table Mountain and further eye-catching examples of what you can do with a full head of hair, imagination, a football annual and little else to take up your time.Not since 1950s housewives used long hours with the stylist to stave off terminal boredom have such exuberant crowning glories braved the high street. No wonder boys aren’t doing as well as girls academically: they’re way too preoccupied with their hairstyles. Which is sad really, because you’d have hoped that the journey to a more equal world would have seen both sexes embrace the best of the opposite sex, not the worst. Instead of women adopting the more relaxed approach to personal grooming favoured by centuries of men, what seems to have happened is that men have fallen hook, line and sinker for the beauty industry. Pomaded and lacquered, buffed, bronzed and toned to within a hair’s breath of caricature and beyond, the seduction of the male of the species by the most frivolous of human concerns seems a done deal. It’s been a salutary lesson in human nature to see sensible men slipping to such superficial lows, but then again I don’t own a gym or a male-grooming range.What contemporary men share with the housewife of yesteryear is time to kill. You can only hoover the front room so many times, as those Valium-popping domestic goddesses knew only too well. Today’s male, with the responsibility of earning a livelihood at the very least halved, and with his female counterpart in most cases still doing all the domestic chores, is in no doubt looking for something to keep himself busy. My suggestion would be to stop with the drudgery of those meat-heavy, carb- free meals, the admin and the housework and liberate yourself from playing tertiary industry to your iron-pumping husband and see if that shakes him from his “self-respecting” reverie. If he doesn’t quit the body building when you’ve withdrawn all facilitating services, then you know he’s a lost cause until he signs up for weightlifters anonymous. Spending protracted time at the gym is no sin so long as you’re pulling equal weight at home. Anything else is a deal breaker.</content>
<class_name>Relationships,Men's health,Health & wellbeing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T06:59:08+0100</date>
<title>My husband has turned into a fitness fanatic. What can I do?</title>
<content>t’s hard to imagine running out of loo roll, never mind the rare minerals that power our economy and appliances. But depletion looms as we speed through the Earth’s resources and climate change alters the rules.We’re reaching, or have surpassed, the peak availability of copper, lithium (essential for the electric vehicle revolution), phosphate, anchovies, artisanal coffee and even chocolate. Cause yourself peak anxiety and read Richard Heinburg’s .You may feel lithium and copper shortages are not your problem. They might be soon. Take phosphorus: All agricultural systems depend on it. . Yet demand could outstrip supply in 30-60 years.  is essential to electronics, everything in your house and medical technology (including MRIs). And we’re facing a 10m tonne supply deficit by 2028.Here’s your strategy. 1) Be a smarter consumer. Remember that 20-40% of British-grown crops don’t even make it into stores thanks to overproduction and aesthetic appearance. Smart consumers seek out production gluts and  destined for the dump.2) Be a better consumer: 500m small-scale farmers produce 80% of the world’s food by value but research shows a farmer shortage is looming. They won’t continue to produce our coffee and cocoa if they can’t make a fair living. Buying from the producer-centric Fairtrade system is imperative to securing future supply. Try .3) Be a real consumer. As campaigner Orsola de Castro (blogging at ) points out, the word “consumer” means to use up a material, not squander resources on hardly used items and shovel them prematurely into landfill.Inspired by Hyperion, the world’s tallest tree, architectural practice Vincent Callebaut has drawn up a spellbinding, utopian plan for six wooden tower blocks in New Delhi that will include 1,000 homes, offices, gyms and restaurants. A sustainable, productive garden will wrap around each 36-storey-high tower. This ecosystem project will unite high-density living with small-scale farming and actually create energy.You literally cannot buy these items from some of Sweden’s hottest fashion brands, including Filippa K, Hope, House of Dagmar, Nikolaj d’Étoiles, Uniforms for the Dedicated, Weekday and Whyred. You can only “share them forward”. Because rather than ready-to-wear, this collection is ready-to-share. Here’s how it works: the collection is uploaded to Instagram, and the first user to comment on the photo of an item is eligible to borrow it for one week. (You can also contribute to the ShareWear collection with your own pieces, sharing pictures of your own clothes using the hashtag ). All pieces are then available in the digital showroom at . You can see where an item is and when it will be available to borrow again. A refreshing, disruptive take on fashion that messes with the idea of ownership. Share it.</content>
<class_name>Ethical and green living,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-06T06:00:26+0000</date>
<title>The eco guide to running out</title>
<content>ahahaha, here we go again. Listen, they’re all “shocked” – what planet do these people live on?! You know there was ice on the bird bath again last night? In March! And now we’re meant to panic because it’s boiling in Australia. It’s called weather, people. El Niño mean anything? Thought not. It was hot here in 1976, wasn’t it? Nobody went mental, said our kids would all fry if we didn’t give up lawnmowers, or whatever it is now – yoghurt, probably. You know they’re trying to blame cows, as well as anybody evil enough to boil a kettle?No, because there weren’t any renewables in 1976. Ask yourself, who’s making a profit, it’s all about power and money, wind farms and solar panels – and batshit crazy catastrophists lying about extinct polar bears. Complete myth. Fact: they’re all going in your lasagne. It’s just being covered up. So where are the polar bear bodies then? Just do the math.If it’s really warming, how come we still have to fly abroad on holiday? You know what the temperature is in the North Sea today? In March? Oh, yes, very globally warmed. Definitely throwing away my wetsuit. Fact: the whole planet is cooling. Well, once the consensus was, the Earth is flat. If I’m wrong, why don’t we have vineyards like in medieval times? A lot of people would love a vineyard, but oh no, hysteria’s a better earner.I don’t care about the 1950s! Why don’t they compare it with what it was like for the dinosaurs? It’s the alarmists getting desperate, churning this stuff out, they’re terrified – they can’t admit it’s the coldest March in years and there are more penguins around than at any time in human history. It’s all being hushed up.Why do we never hear about it? Go figure. This brilliant scientist, , he’s proved we’re entering a new Ice Age – human survival literally depends on us in the developed world flying and burning fossil fuels, but the treehuggers would rather we all went extinct than admit they’re wrong. So why does he have to ? The greenies make him. Fact.</content>
<class_name>Climate change
(Environment),Climate change
(Science),Climate change scepticism,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Modern tribes: the climate change denier</title>
<content>he pre-publicity about today’s restaurant is given to gushing about “celebrity chef ”. But what is a celebrity chef anyway? Singh’s CV boasts  that I missed and , a glass-and-steel eyrie that looked like the business class lounge at Dubrovnik airport. So I missed that, too.Anyway, here is his , also the name of  (me neither). I have a phobia of the word “tasty”, and, arriving at the Alea Casino, among the  and  of Springfield Quay, I’m not sure it’s going away any time soon. Singh’s giant face beams out from the Alea’s plate-glass window, in case you’re under any illusions as to who to, um, credit for the place. I’ve been to Vegas, where celebrity chefs cluster like accountants on boybands and where casino restaurants are not necessarily an excuse for fish-in-barrel-shooting: , for instance, is an experience I’ll never forget. But the flat lighting, putty-coloured carpet and anorak’d punters of the Alea are a million miles from the strident bling of Sin City. Never has decadence looked so joyless.Tasty is a lot more colourful, with its lavish use of gemstone hues, faux fretwork panels and massive mural of Singh, this time dangling crabs, but it still feels faintly municipal; the best feature is the view down the Clyde. His menu is larded with arse-clenching Weegie-isms: “pure stunning seabass”, “sounds mental but well tasty”, “cannae beat this”. By sticking to “Bits tae share” and avoiding the “Glasgvegas: gallus dishes with a bit of swagger” (all fillet steak and lobster thermidor), we hope to get the best of the place. We fail.Curry of the day is “pork”. Just pork? “Yes, pork.” So we have “kai jeow goong”, a Thai street-food omelette, featuring two prawns, some peanuts, a lot of tired coriander and a sneeze of sriracha. Instead of fluffy inside and crisp at the edges, it’s as wizened and leathery as Mother Teresa. Glasgow seems to have . Singh’s version – pallid, freezer-style chips with sub-Bisto brown stuff and nubbins of indeterminate cheddar rather than curds – is “pimped” with lobster, truffled mushrooms or (our choice) filet mignon, aka rubbery, grey strips of beef so overcooked, you mourn the cow that died in its name.Astonishingly, those aren’t the worst dishes. “Korean burrito” is obese and clammy, with all the visual allure of a used nappy clogged with indeterminate vegetable matter; thanks to some mushy haddock, it has the fragrance of one, too. When the best thing you eat all night is a tandoori chicken pie, the tiny bastard child of a Scotch pie and a late-night takeaway topped with pickled onions and toothpasty raita, something is seriously amiss. The tomato sauce dispenser is a plastic raygun. Shoot me now.Many of these dishes featured on , so he should have had the practice (a permanent, “fun” incarnation of said pop-up was ). But even a salad – “crispy, zingy and colourful with bang bang butternut squash” – tastes of nothing but onion and sesame oil. Dessert is a sundae of industrial, dusty-chocolate-studded ice-cream with “monkey blood sauce” (the chemical “raspberry” dribble of northern ice-cream vans). Tasty may well be going for comedic value, but the dubious taste might make even  balk.On the same visit to Glasgow, I go back to , where nobody’s face is plastered over the walls and the food is patter-free and excellent, especially a lamb raan, slow-cooked and vividly spiced. Maybe it’s just me; maybe it’s they who are missing the trick by not calling it something like Fancy A Quick Lamb Shank?Other Alea casinos in Nottingham and Manchester feature  and . Uh-huh. As we leave, I notice, past the dessert station full of penny tray-style sweeties, a full-sized cardboard cutout of Singh inviting us to have our photograph taken with him. Really? ? Perhaps this is what defines the celebrity chef: the ego. The reality TV contestant’s blithe ability to self-congratulate and self-publicise. And the brassnecked capacity to put name above door without putting person in kitchen. “Food,” smarms the menu, “that gives you a hug and makes you smile.” Pal, all this gave me was a Glasgow kiss.  Alea Glasgow, Springfield Quay, Paisley Road, Glasgow G5, 0141-555 6100. Open all week, 5-11pm (3-11pm Sun). About £25-30 a head, plus drinks and service. 1/10  2/10  2/10</content>
<class_name>Restaurants,Food & drink,Chefs,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T14:00:19+0000</date>
<title>Tasty, Glasgow G5: ‘The beef is so overcooked, you mourn the cow that died in its name’ – restaurant review</title>
<content>owards the end of my first year at sixth-form college, I realised I had made a huge mistake: poor choices for my A-level subjects; it turned out I was not suited to a life in the sciences, after all. So I tacked on a media studies AS level and found my happy place: one where I got to watch movies and write about them. It was in that class I first watched , and reacquainted myself with its star, .I first fell for Campbell, now 42, in the forever-in-my-heart tween 90s TV drama . She was Julia Salinger, the third sibling in a family of suddenly orphaned young people, and she conveyed teen pain so well. Campbell is one of those performers whose star ascended at a creative moment in cultural history – around the time even horror films were talky as well as gory; and she got to play great characters (yes, I’m including ).Campbell’s distinct quality is her deep sincerity: she effortlessly makes you believe that she’s just a normal girl, going through extraordinary things by happenstance. She did it in  (playing a teen witch who just wants to be pretty) and the aforementioned Scream and its three sequels. I think it works because her face is appealing, but not too pretty – striking in that 90s combo of dark hair and pale skin and a jaw that juts when its owner is being defiant, or bullied, or uncompromising (see also ). She’s plenty uncompromising as Leann Harvey, , matching Claire Underwood’s steely gaze with ease. Turns out Campbell’s still got it. Three cheers for the child actors who make it.</content>
<class_name>House of Cards,Drama,US television,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Why I love… Neve Campbell</title>
<content>’ll meet you there,” I say. “I’ve got something to do first.” That’s a lie. I just don’t want to take an hour-long taxi with you; the fare for that is outrageous. No, better to take public transport and spend an extra hour and half to save the money.You have no clue, though; none of my friends do. My parents have sent me to an expensive private school in the hope that I’ll get a good education and land a high-paying job. You are here for an education that was your birthright. I am here because my parents have scraped together every penny they have.I’d be a fool not to take advantage of this education, and I’m one of my year’s top students, but it isn’t easy trying to hide my lack of money. Make no mistake, I am by no means poor, but by your standards I might as well be. When we go out for dinner, I scream inside at the cost. Often I don’t eat, saying I’ve had something already or I’m not hungry. Some people ask if I’m anorexic, because they never see me eat a proper meal outside school.I can’t complain. I have a stellar education, great friends and overall I’m happy. But it’s hard not to feel resentful when friends explain how their parents give them the equivalent of a month’s pay from my two part-time jobs. I’ve considered telling my closest friends how uncomfortable I feel when I simply cannot afford the outings and downright stupid wastes of money. But that would mean the end of our friendship as equals. It would be an acknowledgment that you are superior to me; you might protest, but in some small way, you would begin to pity me. Tell us what you’re really thinking – email </content>
<class_name>Private schools,Students,Schools,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>What I’m really thinking: the poorer friend</title>
<content> am exacting when it comes to makeup bags. I’m routinely horrified by how the smartest, most together-seeming people have filthy makeup bags full of splayed brushes and useless sponge applicators, all caked in the ashen remains of an eyeshadow bought a decade ago and cracked soon after. My makeup has to be clean or I don’t want to use it, so when it comes to bags, I’m a utilitarian and pragmatist. I generally want something clear, so I can spot immediately what I’m looking for with minimal rummaging, wipe down regularly and get it through security, depending on the kindness of airport staff (there’s practically nothing you can do to please Luton’s, besides give them a quid for one of their own bags).My favourite place for this sort of thing is Muji. Their  (£5.95) is ideal, and I have several in my kit. You can get transparent pencil cases that do the same job everywhere, but the expandable sides of Muji’s case make it more roomy and allow a foundation to stand straight, and I find the zip sturdier than most. For larger toiletries such as sunscreens, shampoo and so on, I use professional  (£13.50), which are way too big for handbags, but pack neatly and sturdily in suitcases to stop leaking or spilling on to clothes.Neither of those is exciting to look at, however, and I’m hardly immune to pretty for pretty’s sake, so I’m taken with  (£10), which is just as practical, but a bit more cheering to look at. Speaking of lipstick, I also love my (never a truer word spoken). It’s a great size for a night out (powder compact, blush, lipstick, phone battery), and I’m always asked where I got it. The annoying answer used to be Chelsea Market in New York City, but now the designer, Pamela Barsky, ships her huge selection of witty bags to the UK, for £11.91 plus postage.You really needn’t spend the cash, but if you particularly want a fancy pouch to look good in an expensive handbag – and why not? – or if you want to buy someone a special makeup bag as a gift, my favourites are  (from £85). The colours, prints and leathers change seasonally, but all are extremely durable and so soft that they expand to become surprisingly capacious.</content>
<class_name>Beauty,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Sali Hughes: makeup bags for every budget</title>
<content>A good craic.Younger than I was expecting. Nice shirt.Mostly about him, but I struggled to concentrate on some of the multimedia chat.He had to tell me halfway through the main course that his name was Jamie, not James.He was overwhelmed by the prospect of eating prawns with his hands. I thought I knew better, so tried to demonstrate. I didn’t.He’s a bit off the wall, which I like.It turned out we already have one in common.Funny, controversial, cheeky.I have absolutely no idea.He took me for cheap Heineken and vodka and Cokes at a Dublin haunt I’d wanted to go to for a while.Yes, thanks to cheap Heineken and vodka and Cokes.Nothing – ambitions for a good craic were realised.7.Romantically, probably not. As friends, definitely.A pretty lady, fun conversation and some decent grub.Very pretty, well dressed and, crucially, very chatty.Living in Ireland, “electronic dance-type music”, her love of Jeremy Corbyn and the ethics of ordering foie gras.Take your pick from my attempt to eat prawns with my hands to guessing her age wrong (in the wrong direction).Better than mine.She was articulate and funny.Absolutely.Open, talkative, cool.I over-share and could have gone steadier on the booze.For more drinks.Yes, only to say that we did.I wouldn’t have had the prawns.A solid 8.I’d be delighted to. Jamie and Peigí ate at , Dublin 2.Fancy a blind date? Email . For a free three-day trial of Soulmates, go to </content>
<class_name>Dating,Relationships,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:19+0000</date>
<title>Blind date: ‘I could have gone easier on the booze’</title>
<content>very month or two, the media offers up a new tale of a sad-looking wealthy couple, explaining how they’re living hand-to-mouth or planning : the spiralling school fees, second home and twice-annual ski trips to St Moritz have simply become too much. This is the journalistic equivalent of lion-feeding time at the zoo, with the unsuspecting couple as hunks of meat. It’s a splendid opportunity for materially fortunate people – like me, and maybe you – to cackle at the un-selfawareness of the extremely fortunate, which feels better than laughing at the poor. But I still feel guilty. Because anyone who knows anything about psychology knows how swiftly we adapt: before we know it, things that were once luxuries have become non-negotiable. Cackle all you like, but there is probably no number of ski trips or holiday homes that can’t start to feel impossible to give up.And human psychology is even more annoying than that: you can be entirely aware that your luxuries are luxuries, but make yourself crazy trying to preserve them. In , the investment manager Gary Sernovitz explained the torment of belonging to Global Services, the highest frequent-flyer category on United Airlines, with perks including first-class upgrades, no security queues and limousine transfer between terminals. He diagnosed himself with “Global Services maintenance anxiety disorder” – a compulsive effort not to lose his status, made worse by United’s refusal to reveal the basis on which it’s awarded. Among the symptoms: otherwise pointless “mileage runs”, flights made solely to gain the favour of the airline gods. Why not just relax and, if you lose your status, so be it? Apparently, that’s not an option.This psychological mechanism, , is famous, yet I don’t think we’ve begun to appreciate the role it plays in life – how many of our choices, large and small, are made on the basis of fundamentally misjudging what we couldn’t live without. Next time you’re laughing at the squeezed super-rich, consider your own life, which doubtless includes plenty of things you don’t technically need in order to live. Would it hurt to give them up? Obviously; and there’s no reason to assume it’s different higher up the ladder.But the saving grace, which people in the grip of hedonic adaptation never remember, is that it works in the other direction. Make a sacrifice in your quality of life, and the chances are you’ll quickly forget what you’re missing. As , that’s one reason most of the people threatening to leave the US if Donald Trump is elected won’t do so: we exaggerate the intensity and duration of the pain we’ll feel if a dreaded prospect comes to pass. That’s useful to remember when contemplating a life-choice that might threaten your material comfort: you’re almost certainly ascribing too much weight to that downside. It probably also follows that, living in New York, I should be less panicked by the thought of a Trump presidency. But I’m still working on that one.</content>
<class_name>Health & wellbeing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T15:00:01+0000</date>
<title>Give up life’s luxuries? It’s not that easy</title>
<content>hen my father arrives in the hospice, there is a flurry of activity. Drug charts are checked, vital signs are tested. We all know he has come here to die, but still the idea is that something might be fixed, at least temporarily, and the young doctor and nurses on duty that evening have an air of “sorting things out”. It is a relief to get here; they know what to do. The flat has become a claustrophobic, smelly and unmanageable place for my mother to care for Dad.The next day, you slide into the room like an elegant cat – without an entourage of junior doctors, a computer on wheels or a stethoscope slung around your neck. You lean over my sleeping father and take him in without saying anything, and then turn to my mother with a smile that is at once kind and serious.You take us to a side room and tell us that he is nearly finished with his body now, that it is normal and natural and that there is nothing to be done except to keep him comfortable. You say it clearly and calmly, making eye contact with my mother. It is a beautiful day, and you suggest we take a walk and look at the sky, the daffodils, the trees beginning to bud. “He will be with you in these things,” you say, entirely without sentimentality. “It is time to let him go.”For the first time in the entire period of my father’s cancer, my mother cries. Woman to woman, you look at her and she feels your genuine solidarity. It is a turning point, and from then on my mother prepares to cut free from her husband of more than 55 years.Over the next days, when on duty, you appear quietly in the room with an aura of respect for the sacred space we have created with flowers, cards and drawings by grandchildren. You never talk loudly to my father as if he is deaf or stupid. You also never adopt the drippy, concerned tone often used by professionals with the ill or grieving. Your gaze is clear and direct, as is the information you give us. Dad is taking his time, he has things to say and his body is not quite ready to close down.“This is not a medical condition we can treat, or something I can help with drugs or charts,” you say, as I pack away my violin after playing the Scottish folk tunes of Dad’s childhood to him. “This,” she gestures to my son sitting on the bed, the guitar lying on the chair, Mum holding Dad’s hand. “This is all that’s important now.”There is nothing to do but wait, and I see from your experience and wisdom that you know how hard this is – this endless waiting, which is pregnant with ambivalence. You have seen this many times before.Thank you for what  (the founder of the modern palliative care movement) called the “depth of time” you have given to us. Perhaps you spent no more minutes with my dad than any of the other professionals. Perhaps you even spent less time, as you didn’t bother much with symptoms or drugs and interventions that we could all see were pointless. But you met my dying father, my mother and me with honesty, dignity and sincerity, and this is what we will remember and treasure.</content>
<class_name>Family,Death and dying,Health,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:30:20+0000</date>
<title>A letter to … the hospice doctor who helped us to say goodbye</title>
<content> used to keep a pot of Greek basil growing outside my front door. I’d heard the ancient Greeks did this so that guests who entered the house could brush their hands through the leaves, cleansing them of the outside world before coming in. I’m not sure if it’s an accurate story, but I like the idea of a stimulating aromatic cleanse before entering the house.Herbs have a similar way of stimulating our cooking; they are a meadow of culinary gems that provide an earthy intensity. They also allow a dish take on a choice of aromatic guises, from Asian and Byzantine notes to more familiar Mediterranean and British accents. Some of the most unforgettable dishes I’ve eaten have been adorned with herbs – smoked cod’s roe piled with freshly torn marjoram, or flatbreads sprinkled with wild za’atar and olive oil.Not so long ago, I travelled through Istanbul, Damascus and Beirut, places laced with the scent of orange blossom and herbs like marjoram and oregano. In cooking, these herbs pack a ballsy punch. It’s this generosity of flavour, and the way it amplifies a dish, that we love about cooking with fresh herbs. You can always afford to throw in a bit more for good measure; with herbs, we work with handfuls, not hints. Herbs share much common ground with alliums. Together they form the bedrock of the cuisines mentioned above. Alliums are perennially available, but their varieties (which include onions, garlic and leeks) change with the seasons. Our cooking can work in harmony with the transformation of garlic, for example, from wispy, wild Medusa-like scapes (buds) – both delicate on the nose and slight on the palate – to the wild garlic and new season garlic bulbs, which impart so much freshness in cooking.Tom takes the delicate flavours of these early alliums and serves them with grilled meats, such as lamb chops. He’ll turn wild garlic leaves into a fragrant green sauce to spoon over fish and meat, or toss them through gnocchetti and pasta. He’s even deep-fried them with chips to make the tastiest garlic fries ever. Ramps (garlicky wild leeks) and early onions, such as calçots, are delicious simply charred and served with olive oil and salt.Like everything, how we use alliums and herbs is determined by the season. But, uniquely, the properties of these ingredients have an astonishing sense of place and the ability to transport us, be it the roughly torn anise scent of basil that might evoke sitting among the olive groves in Italy, to the more understated flavours of chives and chervil, which plant us firmly in an English garden, heavy with the blossom of sweet pea. Wherever you find yourself or wherever you’d like to go, allow the use of alliums and herbs in your cooking to lead the way.At the restaurant we use tropea onion, a heritage onion from Italy that is gaining popularity, but red onions work well too. The onions’ sweetness works in harmony with the delicacy of the peas – both pop perfectly in your mouth.5g table salt500g full fat Greek yoghurt4 red onions4 large garlic cloves2 green chillies800g peas, poddedA handful of curry leavesJuice of ½ lemon The night before, make the labneh by whisking the salt into the yoghurt. Pour into a piece of cheesecloth, tie the corners together and suspend over a bowl in the fridge overnight. This draws out some of the liquid and firms up the yoghurt. If you don’t have cheese cloth you can strain it through a coffee filter. The following day remove the labneh from the cheese cloth and bring up to room temperature before using. Peel and thinly slice the onion and garlic. Slice the green chilli – no need to discard the seeds. Heat some olive oil in a frying pan until hot and smoking. Add the onion, garlic, chilli, peas and curry leaves and allow to blister and fry. Meanwhile, loosely spread the labneh on to a serving platter and then arrange the blistered vegetables on top along with the delicious flavoured cooking oil. Squeeze over the lemon and serve with some charred flatbread.On a country walk in early spring, my pockets will usually be brimming with picked wild garlic. A green sauce is a quick and delicious way to use these leaves, and its an ideal bedfellow to grilled meats and fish.8 lamb loin chops (about 150g each)Extra virgin olive oil1 tsp red pepper flakes, or 1 tsp paprika and a pinch of chilli flakes8 anchovy fillets in salt500g broad beans, poddedA generous handful of wild garlicA few sprigs of mintJuice of one lemon Oil and season the chops. Heat a large frying pan over a medium to high heat, then use tongs to hold the fatty edge of each chop down in the pan until it has rendered and crisped up. After 2 minutes lay them down and cook for 2 minutes on each side. You want them to be pink in the middle. The best way to check is to give them a little squeeze with your finger. They should have a bit of give to them – a bit of bounce. After a couple of minutes on each side remove from the pan, put on a large plate and leave to rest. Pour the fat out of the pan and give it a little wipe. Add a good splash of extra virgin olive oil, the red pepper flakes and anchovies, and cook together for 1-2 minutes to infuse the oil and melt the anchovies. Add the broad beans along with a little splash of water and cook for another 1-2 minutes. Chop or tear the wild garlic and mint, then add to the pan. Cook everything for 30 seconds, squeeze in the lemon juice, then turn everything out over the lamb chops, ensuring even distribution.Less is not more here – the potatoes and mustard creme fraiche can stand up to a very generous helping of herbs, so don’t be shy – pile on the freshness to really propel the flavours.600g jersey royals, washed and scrubbed100g mayonnaise100g creme fraiche2 tbsp dijon mustardSalt and black pepper1 bunch of rainbow or breakfast radishesA handful each of chervil, dill and chivesJuice of ½ lemonExtra virgin olive oil Boil the potatoes in well-salted water for about 8 minutes, depending on their size or until they are just cooked. Drain; allow to cool naturally. Mix the mayo, creme fraiche and mustard together. Toss the potatoes in the dressing, season with salt and pepper and scatter on a serving plate. Thinly slice the radishes into a bowl: we use a mandolin for this because it gets them wafer thin making for a more delicate-looking finish. Tear in the chervil and dill, and finely chop the chives adding them all to the bowl of radishes. Dress with lemon juice and olive oil, gently season and scatter these over the potatoes. To serve, give the dish a final drizzle of olive oil and a few more twists of black pepper.</content>
<class_name>Food & drink,Chefs,Spring food and drink,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:30:14+0100</date>
<title>Ducksoup's recipes with herbs and spring’s first alliums</title>
<content>his is the last of the Mid-life ex-wife columns. The online dating has come to an end and sharing must, also. I’m some way ahead of you in my journal, in my life. This last bulletin is the first I’ve issued in real time and I’m happy to say that Edward and I are still together.Let’s consider the wishlist. I had a picture, in my mind, of the man I would end up with. He would be a bit bohemian, maybe an academic in a linen jacket and neckerchief, perhaps with a leather wristband and a satchel. He would be good in the kitchen and would like to dance. He would be gregarious and make me go to parties. I envisaged re-entering the world in his slipstream after a long period of social awkwardness.None of the above has really come to pass. I like the Rolling Stones and Edward likes the Beatles. I tease him for having Enya on his iPod; he teases me for having Fleetwood Mac on mine and for singing along. On the face of it, we are travel-incompatible. Most of the countries on his bucket list are northern ones. Iceland. The Arctic Circle trip from southern Norway. Alaska, so that he can see bears catching salmon. I want to camp in a desert at night and travel on a train through Indian hills, and I want to go to Africa. (We’ve agreed we will try to do all of it, his list and mine.)Counterintuitively, he can’t bear to be cold. He hogs the duvet and insists that he doesn’t. He will swim only in heated pools and I’m a human golden retriever. We are not naturally food compatible, either. Left to his own devices, he would live on pizzas, pasta and ice-cream, and cold meat with potatoes. He undercooks things and insists they get the full 25 minutes the recipe dictates, and glowers when they go back in the oven, which is funny. He is the most conservative dresser I have ever met, though at the same time strangely wacky. He is colour blind, which explains a lot. He wears loud checked shirts with clashing patterned sweaters. Sometimes he will add a tie – a third dissonant feature. He wears odd socks. He has two pairs of shoes because that’s all he needs.He still holds my hand in the street. He’s 6ft 5in and strides along so if we are late or have to go uphill, the offer of a tow is useful. My dog loves him. My dog prefers him to me and looks to him for instructions and praise; there’s a lot more wagging if Edward’s holding the lead. I’ll get used to it.I have also learned that Edward can be gloriously silly, that he can become intensely talkative – and that he is a good listener. He has deep reserves of goodness. If I’m upset, he says: “Tell me what I can do.” He steps forward to deal with trouble, and deals with it unflinchingly. He’s also profoundly tactile. He pauses to put his arms around me when we’re cooking and holds me close to his chest, and makes his Edward noise (“hmmrrrmmrrrmm”).He snuggles up in bed and says how lovely it is to snuggle. We amuse each other with our assumptions and foibles, experiences and stories. It is one of the ways in which we are still travelling towards one another. Being with someone new in your 50s prompts you to look at the whole sweep of your life. You see patterns there. You see the path behind you and the one ahead. You might see someone else’s path and the two converging into one. We can see that path now.It is satisfying to be able to end on a high note and give people the happy ending so many have wished for me. (Bless you.) As some other people have been unreticent about saying, it’s suspiciously good news and Edward is too good to be true. When I tell him some people don’t believe in him, he says: “Tell them I don’t believe in them either.”He knows about the column. His first reaction was: “That’s brave.” His second was: “Do you mind if I don’t read it?” (No, I don’t.) You’re not going to read this, but I love you, Edward. Even writing this has made my blood warmer, my heart lighter, my mind more steady. I’m aware of being very, very lucky.To those who have followed the story from the beginning, thanks for reading for the past 16 months. Next week, I’m looking back at two years of dating. But from here, it’s bye-bye.</content>
<class_name>Family,Online dating,Relationships,Dating,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:44:20+0000</date>
<title>Stella Grey and Edward walk off together into the sunset</title>
<content>You are very astute. And you will probably be your sister’s greatest ally during this. But although you having “been there and done that” will give you insight, her journey, exact circumstances, and therefore reactions and “acting out”, are going to be different from yours.I think she is really lucky to have you around.I contacted Helena Cowen, a child and adolescent psychotherapist (), who immediately picked up on what you also mention: the tremendous sense of loss in your sister’s life. She thinks that, probably, your sister’s friend getting a boyfriend has triggered a sense of loss in your sister.“First,” says Cowen, “you have more awareness of your sister’s problems than you may realise. Your sister is dealing with several constellations of family and probably feels cast aside, most recently by her friend. If you think about the attachment young adolescents have towards their boyfriends, it is hard to regulate the feelings, it’s very intense – your sister probably feels really left out [of her friend’s life now].”Then we add into that your stepdad remarrying, two new children, your mother not really being there for the emotional stuff (where does your sister live? With whom? You didn’t say), and it is not surprising that your sister is so destabilised.She is very probably rejecting people because she feels so rejected herself. It takes confidence to make yourself vulnerable, and confidence comes from feeling secure.Cowen suggests that you don’t panic, but allow your sister some time, both to find her way through this (after all, you turned out OK) and for the therapy to work. “Therapy can often bring distressing feelings to the surface to begin with,” she says.I would also suggest reaching out to her in whatever way, or combination of ways, works best (and that may change), either with regular phone calls, letters or Skype. These points of contact will matter to her even if she doesn’t always respond. And even if she gets angry (she may test you to see if you, too, will stick around if she is “mean”). You don’t have to write reams, just let her know you are thinking of her. I note you said that it is not easy for you to get to her, but I wonder if you could see her every now and again and fix these dates in stone so that she knows she has that to look forward to?“You know what she’s missing,” says Cowen, “and you can help her to make sense of it. And her therapist can help your sister to realise that having those feelings does not make her a bad person. That it is possible for her to love her family/friends, but also be very, very angry with them.”Cowen says not to forget that adolescence is a very intense time and things are felt very acutely and don’t “always calm down until your 20s. Indeed, there is some evidence that the frontal lobe doesn’t finish developing until the age of 25/26.”Don’t forget to have fun with her, too, says Cowen. Perhaps when you meet up you could do stuff together, silly stuff as well as having good chats?Adolescence can be a hard enough time as it is, but your sister sounds a bit at sea, as if (you said this yourself) she doesn’t really know where she belongs. I wonder if you have spelled it out to her that you also found things tough when you were a similar age, but you feel much straighter and calmer now? Sometimes we all need to know that difficult times will end. Also, remember that teenagers often look as if they are not listening and don’t care. But they are, and they do.Contact Annalisa Barbieri, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU or email . Annalisa regrets she cannot enter into personal correspondence.Follow Annalisa on Twitter </content>
<class_name>Family,Young people,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T14:59:01+0000</date>
<title>My teenage sister seems to hate everyone</title>
<content> A highly effective, highly functional exercise that uses your entire body, even if it does sound a bit like the title of a terrible straight-to-DVD thriller. It uses a kettlebell, so you’ll need access to one of those.Improved shoulder stability, core strength, mobility and leg drive. Plus it has an actual point: do enough of these and you’ll be stronger, as opposed to just looking stronger.I once asked a trainer what exercise he’d give to someone who was completely out of shape. He said that he’d make them lie on the floor and stand up over and over again. At heart, this is exactly the thinking behind the Turkish get-up. You lie flat on your back, holding a kettlebell above your head. Then, keeping that arm perfectly outstretched, you stand up. Then, once you’re there, you return to the starting position and do it again. By the time you’ve done about 20 of them, you’ll hate kettlebells, Turkey and the entire concept of exercise. But that’s probably a good thing, and it means there’s room for improvement.On the minuscule off-chance that you master this, try it with a kettlebell in each hand. It’s even worse. It is called the Turkish get-up, by the way, because Turkish wrestlers apparently used it as a way of demonstrating their immense strength to each other.This is a hard exercise that will leave you wobbly-legged and out of breath. But it’s also brilliant, and much more effective than a bicep curl will ever be. Evet.</content>
<class_name>Health & wellbeing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Is it worth it? Turkish get-up – exercise review</title>
<content>In keeping with the current vogue on campus, this review comes with a trigger warning. At some point over the next 1,100 words, I believe I am going to come across as grossly patronising, sodden with metropolitan disdain and lousy with condescension. This, in turn, could trigger in many of you outbreaks of acute eye-rolling and sighing. To be fair, none of this is very different from usual. It’s just going to be more obvious this week. This is because I am overwhelmed by the impulse to tell you exactly what went through my head during the entire process of booking and eating at  in Liverpool, rather than dressing it up with some faux out-of-London friendly niceties to make myself sound better. This may not always be pretty.The fact is I never intended to review the place. I booked in because I had a show to do that night and, unlike most of the other restaurants in Liverpool, Maray was prepared to take a 9.30pm booking. (I whinged on Twitter about how hard it was to find somewhere to eat post 9pm outside London; I was met with the quite reasonable response from chefs that my struggle was as nothing compared to theirs to find enough customers willing to do so.) Their ability to take that booking – in my own name; as I say I wasn’t planning to write about it – even trumped my suspicion of the language used on the website.Because apparently they had not merely written their menu. They had “curated” the damn thing. Oh God. I’ve whinged about this before, but that’s not going to stop me doing so again. The word curate is not a synonym for “chosen” or “collected”. If it was, then in recent weeks I have curated the contents of my fridge, my underwear drawer and my prejudices. It must be infuriating to all the genuine curators in museums the world over, pursuing their calling with dedication and experience, that every half-arsed cocktail jockey, stove monkey or DJ has co-opted the term to make their jobs sound better. I suppose saying you curate contemporary sounds for an athletic body movement-aware demimonde does sound a bit better than: “I put on records in a nightclub.”Except, having eaten at Maray, I am willing to acknowledge that there is something akin to curation going on here. They have curated a load of the best stuff currently omnipresent in London, and brought it here. The restaurant’s name is apparently a phonetic realisation of the Marais district of Paris. There, in the tight knot of streets just behind the Bastille, long one of the city’s Jewish areas, the three young founders were much taken by the falafel joints. They wanted to bring something of that back to Liverpool. And the falafel at Maray, apparently made from scratch every day rather than with chickpea flour, is a marvellous thing: crisp outside, puffing a sweet nuttiness from inside as you break them open. They come with a smear of hummus punched up with the fire of harissa and, for ballast, a little tabbouleh. Flatbreads are delivered to the table soft and warm.But what’s really interesting is the rest of the menu. This is a small plates, sharing portions gaff, the sort of thing you can’t move for in Dalston and Peckham. What’s extremely clever, however, is that it manages to cover seemingly every genre going. So, while the flavours of the Middle Eastern grill house do predominate, it’s also a bit Skandi and a bit pimped American junk food. It is all the clichés that we have become very used to in the capital across multiple restaurants, only crammed into one. In the hands of a lesser kitchen this could be a car crash, complete with tyre marks, collapsed lamp posts and distraught witnesses; a cacophony of plates, each of which is a fumble of the genuine article. But Maray does all of these things very well indeed, and at an exceptionally good price. Most dishes cost £6 or a little less.From the Middle Eastern end of the menu comes a lump of roasted cauliflower with high smoky notes, dressed with tahini, yogurt, more harissa, flaked almonds and the sweet burst of pomegranate seeds. The much-lauded  in London’s Soho does this. Maray does it equally well, but much cheaper. From the same side of the menu comes thumb-thick pieces of butternut squash, roasted until caramelised and soft, and dressed with cooling tahini and the sweet-sour punch of a sticky balsamic reduction. Planks of seared wild mushroom come on a buttery purée of the same and dressed with the aromatics of dukkah, until they smell like an old spice shop in a Turkish bazaar.Next up something from northern latitudes, bringing a lightness to the darker flavours of the Middle East: pristine cubes of beetroot and gin-cured trout, with the crunch of pickled cucumber, which reminds me of the food at  a couple of weeks back. Non-meat dishes predominate here – Monday’s are completely meat free – but from the short list we get their buttermilk fried chicken, made with thigh meat as it should be, and drizzled with a spiced honey. God, but it’s good: crispy, salty and sweet. So that’s a nod to  or . Heads of kale are deep fried and dressed with salt and chilli. They crumble and puff to nothing in our mouths and are completely addictive.There are just two desserts including a plum and pear cheesecake which we are told is “deconstructed”. That’s the kind of thing which could make me a bit punchy and shouty. Couldn’t you just make a real one? But I rather like the bowl of whipped sweetened cream with a fruit purée and a kind of biscuit gravel. It’s not a cheesecake and has no hope of ever being one, but it’s extremely edible.The room is long and narrow and has distressed brickwork on one side and white walls the other, hung with edgy pop art. The tables are made from reclaimed doors and sewing machine stands. The kitchen is half open and staffed by a bearded man. Some of the wines are biodynamic. Well, of course they are. But that’s OK. Liverpool’s restaurant sector is expanding. Interesting things are happening. But, right now, it’s unlikely it could support three small sharing-plate joints covering, say, the Middle East, Scandinavia and the US. Happily, it doesn’t need to. Because down on Bold Street there’s a place called Maray. And it’s doing the job just fine.■ The Palomar, at the unsexy end of London’s Rupert Street, has managed the rare trick of creating a vibe without letting it overwhelm the food. Sit at the bar, back chat with the chefs, drink shots and enjoy the Israeli-influenced food, such as the Jerusalem mix of chicken livers, hearts and veal sweetbreads seared with okra, tomato and tahini ().■ Given the excitement around steaks from long-lived Spanish dairy cows, it was only time before a British equivalent emerged. Butcher Salter & King of Aldeburgh, Suffolk is selling meat from a 12-year-old Lincoln Red. ‘The colour is dark and intense,’ says Gerard King, ‘and the yellow fat runs lightly right through the meat.’ They deliver nationwide ().■ Ping Coombes, who won MasterChef in 2014, has surfaced in her first restaurant role. She is consulting on the menu at Chi Kitchen, located in Debenhams on London’s Oxford Street. It will finally make her famed laksa available to the public ().</content>
<class_name>Food & drink,Restaurants
(Life and style),Liverpool holidays,Restaurants
(Travel),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T06:00:07+0100</date>
<title>Maray: restaurant review</title>
<content> study has found that 43% of women who give up smoking during pregnancy take it up again soon after they give birth. Why so many? It’s no surprise that nicotine is addictive, but what goes on in the brain during a cigarette craving?Nicotine is picked up in the brain by ‘nicotinic’ receptors. We also have ‘cannabinoid’ and ‘opioid’ receptors which work in similar ways - there are no prizes for guessing what they pick up. These receptors didn’t evolve for humans to become addicted to drugs, but they happen to provide a more direct pathway for these plant-based chemicals to reach the brain. Over time, smokers adapt to the presence of nicotine and develop a tolerance, leading to cravings.This means that nicotine addiction develops in a more fundamental, chemical way than addictions to sex, the internet or even chocolate. There are no ‘internetinoid’ or ‘chocolatinoid’ receptors in the brain - instead, dependencies develop through more indirect pathways related to reward and pleasure.Not everyone who smokes becomes addicted, but as the women in the study will tell you, this chemical ‘hardwiring’ makes it very difficult to quit.</content>
<class_name>Smoking,Neuroscience,Health,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>Why is it so hard to quit smoking?</title>
<content>arina Cantacuzino is telling me a story about two women, both of whom discovered that their partners were having affairs. For the first one – let’s call her Woman A – the infidelity, says Cantacuzino, “was seen as the act of ultimate betrayal, which not only ended her marriage but for the past 30 years has been the defining, obsessional, story of her life.”As a result, her children, whom she had roped into the bitter, protracted war against her husband, more or less lost contact with their father.Woman B was equally devastated to discover her husband’s affair, which came to light through text messages sent accidentally to one of their children.But, over time, she decided that “These things happen, she was not going to let it ruin her life. The affair had to stop but it wasn’t going to be the big defining moment for her family.”Some years later it was, says Cantacuzino, “as if it had never happened. There was no residue.”Bitter marital breakdown. Estranged siblings. Adult children who “divorce” their parents. Friends who never speak again. Such all too common stories are a testament to the challenge of forgiveness in everyday life.Extremes apart, almost everyone has a tale of an unthinking comment or unkind act (or several) by a family member or friend that can never quite be thrown off.At the same time, none of us wants to be one of those slightly sad people with a long, knotted tale of deep resentment that is hauled out at every occasion, often over a string of seemingly minor incidents going back years: that person with a powerful investment in telling the story only one way – our way. Cantacuzino seems like an excellent adjudicator of such thorny issues. A former journalist with a calm, non-judging presence (she is a practising Buddhist), she set up the Forgiveness Project 10 years ago. A charitable enterprise, it has explored, largely through vivid storytelling, the many ways in which individuals deal with major trauma such as murder, sexual violence or acts of terrorism.Her years as a journalist speaking to people about “the smaller injustices of their personal lives” meant that when she started collecting forgiveness stories she was ‘‘keen to avoid the ‘smaller’ and more personal narratives and concentrate instead on the more extreme stuff. I wanted to be more serious and engaged politically.”The Forgiveness Project has done some remarkable work, bringing together perpetrators and victims from just about every serious war zone and area of conflict in the world, including Northern Ireland, South Africa and Israel. Sometimes it has ventured into controversial territory, such as its decision to hold a discussion at the House of Commons between Brighton bomber Pat Magee and , during the Conservative party conference.The project has also gone into British prisons, bringing victims of violence face to face with those who have committed similarly extreme acts. One of the most absorbing and remarkable debates I ever attended was a Forgiveness Project discussion between the , who broke into his home that night.In recent years, Cantacuzino has been struck by the many parallels between the experience of severe trauma and that of the more mundane betrayals of daily life. Very often, one is wrapped inside the other, as in the case of Magdeline Makola, who in 2008 was kidnapped and locked in the boot of her car for 10 days but ended up feeling a greater anger with some of her friends – whom she claimed “were more interested in talking to the media than in my wellbeing” – than towards her brutal assailant.Stories like these led Cantacuzino to fresh reflection on the difficulty – but vital importance – of thinking about forgiveness in ordinary life, and the charity is now broadening its work to look at more diverse, daily stories including those of medical mishaps and workplace conflict.During our conversation, she mentions how much classic literature has the theme of forgiveness at its heart, from Middlemarch, in which George Eliot talks about “the hideous fettering of domestic hate”, to Anthony Trollope’s suitably entitled Cantacuzino says, “Forgiveness is a nuanced thing. It’s a choice, a practice. In successful relationships, we’re probably doing it unconsciously on a daily basis. The English poet and philosopher David Whyte says, ‘All friendships of any length are based on a continued, mutual forgiveness.’ I love that quote!” She pauses, then laughs. “Or you could just call it, letting go of the rankle.”Good word that, rankle.So, I am curious to know, what makes the difference between a Woman A and Woman B? Is it age or experience – or are some things just hard-wired in our temperaments? (We often talk about a character as “proud” or “stubborn”, unsure whether to praise, pity or even decry such qualities.) And how much is it to do with the way we were brought up? Could we, should we, be raising forgiving children?Cantacuzino says, “You would hope that age comes into it, that experience would make people realise that life isn’t black and white. But sometimes people get more stubborn and entrenched as they get older, and it’s harder for them to be flexible.”Styles of parenting obviously exert a powerful influence. “Clearly the attitude with which you rear your children is going to affect them, although each of them will be very different people. My mother was a good forgiver. She always said sorry to us when we were children, and I think that’s fantastically important. Similarly, a parent who never says sorry can create a child who finds it hard to do the same.”Children can also learn empathy, an important part of the forgiveness process, from their early years. “It’s often about being able to put yourself in the other person’s shoes. A forgiving person would think: could I be that person? Did I perhaps play some part in this dynamic?”Often a turning point for a victim of serious crime can occur with a face-to-face meeting with the perpetrator, coming to see them as a vulnerable human being, which can be hugely liberating. But, of course, in family life or friendship, we know the other person only too well (or we think we do) and this, paradoxically, can make it harder.Everyone who has thought deeply about these issues agrees on one thing: there is no easy, quick path. Sometimes the choice to forgive, whatever that means, will come only after a lot of inner turbulence. Cantacuzino believes, “Feelings of rage and revenge come from pain, so it’s important to feel the pain, to grieve deeply for a loss. Some people call this process Hate, Hurt, Heal.”But isn’t anger or even hate sometimes a legitimate response? Cantacuzino tells me a story about a father who left all his money to just one of his three adult children, leaving the other siblings furious and the relationships fractured. I protest at the unfairness and she says, “Life is messy. Perhaps we do best not to have expectations, to not think that we are owed everything, even by our family. It’s really not black and white.”In this case, the story has a happy ending. The sibling who was left the money decided to share it out in an “effort to repair the relationship”. But I am left feeling the “rankle” on her siblings’ behalf and a nagging worry that too much emphasis on inner emotional worlds could, in the wrong hands, lead the less powerful to reconcile themselves to injustice rather than seek resolution of a wrong.Cantacuzino is keen to stress, “Forgiveness is not about condoning or excusing bad behaviour. Forgiving is a tool for dealing with pain, a decision not to perpetuate the cycle. Reconciling with the past allows you to look to the future. The single thing that most characterises people who have experienced forgiveness is this larger perspective.”The American journalist Harriet Brown has written about how, after years of obsessively hating her mother, she came to understand that while she might still choose not to meet her mother, she could make that decision in a different spirit. “Forgiveness, I begin to see, is not about pretending you don’t feel angry or hurt. It’s about responding out of kindness rather than rage. Even toward someone who’s hurt you deeply.”Cantacuzino echoes this sentiment: “Sometimes it’s about acknowledging the hurt and choosing to let go. A few years ago, I had a friendship that went wrong. I tried to put it right, probably too hard. In the end, I had to realise, people have a right not to be your friend. And you not to be theirs.“Sometimes we just have to give in to broken relationships. The writer Sharon Salzberg rather brilliantly calls it ‘loosening the grip of fixation’.”</content>
<class_name>Family,Bereavement,Death and dying,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:00:20+0000</date>
<title>How to heal your family – from petty resentments to affairs</title>
<content> – the Guardian blog trying to analyse the best way to eat the UK’s favourite dishes – is, this month, turning its sharpened cutlery to the matter of fish pie. It is a dish that, in its ideal form is, arguably, our foremost comfort food – but one that, due its lack of a rigorous, specific format is open to all sorts of haphazard misinterpretation. HTE intends to put that right. BTL, please refrain from blatant codswallop. Such trawling will lead to you being mercilessly smoked by your fellow commentators. They have haddock up to here with such tiresome pollocks. Otherwise, this forum is your oyster.This is one of those dishes that primarily suits informal communal eating, where people sit around a table helping themselves from a huge, steaming vessel of pie. Each individual portion, meanwhile, requires freedom on the plate. The sauce must be able to flow into any accompanying veg – veg which  be served sideby side with the pie. Said sauce should also be allowed to lap around and further lubricate the buttery mash. Therefore, fish pie must never be served in individual dishes (eg cast iron oven-to-table pots), as pubs tend to. Yes, it may look appealing – if mainly to the chef who, in such over-elaboration, is seeking to justify his title – but it entirely misunderstands what this meal is all about. It turns the fish pie into something prim and laborious (which requires you to then wrestle the pie out of a superheated pot, to marry it with the veg), when it should be a matter of easy, elbows-on-the-table, fork-in-one-hand, glass-in-the-other eating.  pie should be a dish of seamless comfort-troffing.Heaven forbid that this column should get above its station and start telling you how to make fish pie. That is the sainted Felicity Cloake’s . But it would be remiss not to flag-up a few key points. Firstly, don’t be shy – get as much flavour and textural variety into that filling as possible. Boiled eggs, leeks, wine, anchovies, fish stock and mustard are all legit additions (if not necessarily all at the same time), alongside the more obvious seasonings, such as nutmeg, dill and parsley. The filling should also contain a healthy slug of double cream.We all like (no?) a bit of smoked fish in there for depth and heft, and a few prawns, alongside the standard white fish and salmon. The only obviously unwelcome interlopers are those rubbery little oiks, mussels, and their more refined but equally unlovely mollusc cousins, oysters. Scallops are an entirely unnecessary gilding of this particular lily. It is a gross waste to include them in a fish pie. However, if HTE is going to refrain from getting into the close detail of how to make a fish pie, it must be stridently vocal on one key point: the topping and, less often, the bottom (clue: !). The only acceptable topping* for a fish pie is of course soft, creamy mashed potato, topped with browned, bubbling cheese or, ideally, a parmesan and breadcrumb mixture. That adds a final savoury, crunchy flourish that is the fish pie’s crowning glory. [*Fish pie must always be served crust-up. Not on its side and certainly not crust-down, where that crust will quickly become soggy.]Filo and puff pastry are less pleasant if vaguely logical alternatives to mash, but a shortcrust pastry topping (much less a fish pie entirely encased, meat pie-style in shortcrust), is several dimensions of wrong. This should, bar that thin, crisp layer of toasted breadcrumbs, be an entirely smooth, easily yielding eating experience. Pastry is not required.It is key that the vegetables are served beside the fish pie and not in it. Adding peas and carrots to a fish pie means that the fresh vegetal contrast that you want them to provide, that clean, iron and mineral-rich tang, is lost in the creaminess of the pie. It is also crucial that any vegetables served are present in an uneven mound with lots of exposed surface area, so that the pie’s sauce can properly penetrate and coat them. This is one of the few (perhaps only) circumstances where that 1970s staple, diced mixed veg, still has an obvious use. Certain vegetables (peas, spinach, shredded savoy cabbage, julienne or diced carrots, watercress*) lend themselves to partnering fish pie, both in terms of their sweetness or mineral flavours, and their shape. Others, such as broccoli, asparagus or cauliflower florets, obviously do not. You cannot effectively mop up sauce with purple sprouting broccoli.[*You could in strict geometric terms include sweetcorn in that list – but, of course, sweetcorn is utterly vile. It ruins any other foods it comes into contact with.]As a blog of northern origin, it pains HTE to say this, but you do not need extra bread with a fish pie. We have all on occasion wiped the plate clean, but it is an action you immediately regret. This is a filling meal. You have probably already had a second portion. Put the white-sliced in play and it becomes a meal of gut-busting discomfort. And that is not –  – what we are aiming for.It does not need any. This is a self-saucing meal. Moreover, any of those condiments that you might add as seasoning (Henderson’s Relish, Lea & Perrins, etc), would utterly overpower this dish. Only the very drunk would add tomato or brown sauce to a fish pie. Perhaps you could make a case for a sharp, spiky tartare, but it is not one that HTE is minded to push.White wine or strong, rusty tea are both superior to tap water. You want something flat, not fizzy here, but you also need that tannic, dry edge to both cleanse the palate and distract you from that fact that (while you need to), drinking while eating fish pie turns the white fish into a mealy mush as you chew. If you insist on beer, cask pale ales work due to their low carbonation, but really any fizziness, allied to that aforementioned mealyness, tends to create a distinctly unpleasant sensation of lively, bouncing bittiness in the mouth.Fish pie should be served in shallow, wide-rimmed bowls with a fork and a spoon. The bowl will help that sauce collect around the vegetables. This is not a meal where you need a knife, but you require a spoon in order to scrape up every last scintilla of pie from around the bowl.Ideal as a blowout Sunday-lunch alternative to a roast. Fish pie is both too fiddly and potentially expensive for a midweek tea.So, fish pie, how do you eat yours?</content>
<class_name>Fish,Food & drink,Seafood,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T12:16:09+0100</date>
<title>How to eat: fish pie</title>
<content>If they do, it suggests that your companion is a fairly empathic person (or at least has a fair amount of empathy for you). A growing body of evidence suggests that contagious yawning is closely linked to empathy. For starters, babies don’t catch yawns. Yawn contagion only starts to appear around the age of four or five, about the same time as empathy.Secondly, people with psychopathic personality traits, and people with autism – a condition associated with lower levels of empathy – are also less likely to catch yawns. And the closer you are to someone, the more likely you are to catch their yawn. A recent study found that yawn contagion was highest among family members, lower for friends, lower still for acquaintances and lowest for strangers (the same is also true among chimpanzees and bonobos).Finally, a study published earlier this year found that women – who, on average, score higher than men on tests of empathy – are also more likely to catch yawns.Oh, one more thing. Did you yawn while reading this? A study done more than 20 years ago found that simply reading about yawning is enough to cause many people to do so.Psy-Q </content>
<class_name>Psychology,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T07:00:08+0100</date>
<title>Open wide: why yawning reveals much about your level of empathy</title>
<content> bomber jacket that costs almost £1,000? Hard sell. Yes, it’s from Vetements, the most talked-about label of the season, and, yep, it’s palindromically reversible (bear with), in that there’s a zip on the back as well as the front, but who has £915? No one, that’s who. You can borrow the idea though, because half the shtick is in the styling – on its models, Vetements had both zips undone and let it hang off-shoulder. Logically, this is also the best way to wear any thick, padded, winter MA1-style jacket into spring (and back into winter again – padded jackets were on the autumn/winter catwalks at Demna Gvasalia’s  debut and Stella McCartney).It will feel a bit (very) odd at first. Try wearing it with a T-shirt in a contrasting colour or a polo neck until the weather behaves. It’s really the opposite of  – winter’s nattiest trick of wearing your coat or jacket on your shoulders: arms-free, like Superman, just with . </content>
<class_name>Women's coats and jackets,Balenciaga,Stella McCartney,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T12:42:13+0100</date>
<title>Shawling: how to wear your winter coat into spring</title>
<content>eople have stopped inviting me to dinner. It’s not that they don’t want to see me, they explain, they just don’t want to cook for me – and then they suggest a restaurant, as if I won’t leave the house for anything less than a 10-course tasting menu these days. In fact, little makes  – and, honestly, it doesn’t even have to be sourdough. In fact, tinned beans are but the thin end of a very large and heavily processed wedge. Much as I love kale pesto and honky goat’s curd, kimchi and , I’ll always prefer a Wotsit to an artisan potato crisp, and the wrinkled skin of Bird’s custard makes my unsophisticated heart beat faster than a jug of elegantly thin crème anglaise could ever hope to.But coming clean about what are often called “guilty pleasures” – though I feel little shame in them – is hardly brave, or even novel. In fact, these admissions are practically a badge of honour for the diehard foodie, a kind of culinary reverse snobbery designed to prove your worth as a committed omnivore. We know that two-Michelin-starred chef   topped with Frazzles, and Masterchef’s Monica Galetti mainlines Marmite on the sofa, because they have happily disclosed these facts to the press. The godlike  tells me he has “an obsession” with “supermarket-grade sushi” for breakfast, and  regularly revels in the forbidden delights of everything from Smarties to Big Macs (). Even healthier-than-thou birch-water botherer  has gone on record . Such confessions serve as useful proof that you’re a real, fallible human being – hearing  admit that she has a “ and hummus, but that’s about as crazy as it gets!” only confirms my suspicion that she’s a beautiful marketing robot for the chia seed industry.And it’s not just junk food either; a kind of macho, aggressively omnivorous sensibility has developed in recent years: : “Once upon a time, food was about where you came from. Now, for many of us, it is about where we want to go – about who we want to be, how we choose to live … People feel judged by their food choices, and they are right to feel that, because they are.” And if you’re not prepared to tuck into anything under the sun without a moment’s hesitation, you’re instantly classed as that most shameful of things: a fussy eater.Take all those slimy, invisible tubes and organs that work so hard to keep us alive, for instance. With the likes of  and food writer  singing the praises of nose-to-tail eating, and “”, it takes someone with balls, or perhaps fries, as big as Momofuku’s . But I’ll be honest – I’m not. I don’t hate all of it; brains can be surprisingly delicious if you don’t think too hard about what you’re chewing, and flash-fried liver and chargrilled hearts have a certain bouncy charm, but I’ll come clean about the fact that the day I found myself judging 33 steak-and-kidney pies was a dark one indeed.  may boast he likes a certain “uric tang ”, but I’ve given kidneys a good go, and I just don’t share his enthusiasm.Tripe falls into the same camp; however much Sichuan red chilli oil you throw at it, it still tastes of … well, shit – or as , the rather more eloquent editor of , puts it, “I have a conflicted relationship with tripe.” Although I’m all for treating the animal with respect, and eating as much of it as possible, surely if you don’t like something, it should be OK to say so without being pilloried.The current attitude to food reminds me of being a nervous teenage music lover, anxiously scanning Smash Hits to find out whether a new band was cool before declaring myself a fan. And, like , offal is cool precisely because many of us lesser mortals find it rather challenging. The same goes for dark chocolate; the bitterer the better – as I found to my cost when I bit into an 100% cocoa bar recently. Hearteningly, I’m not alone in my childish tastes;  declares that she would rather have “a Toffee Crisp dunked in a cuppa” any day, while  reckons that Dairy Milk “”, advising “if you get a really good-quality bitter dark chocolate, you only really need a square or two because it’s too horrible to want more”.Mushrooms in general, and truffles in particular, are another thing I would be happy to leave in peace under the soil. In the glory days of journalistic junkets, I was taken to Las Vegas for dinner at the three-Michelin-starred L’Atelier de Joël Robuchon – and treated to a seven-course truffle-themed menu, complete with precious tubers flown in from the chef’s native France. Unfortunately, whatever  might think about these grubby fungi being “”, they still tasted of stale armpits to me. Not that I dared to admit it at the time, of course.In fact, I’m a pretty cheap date, because I don’t really get all the fuss about lobster, either. I have had it sea fresh and stuffed into a plain white roll on a New England shore, and gussied up at London’s beloved , and I’m still at a loss as to what this fearsomely pricy crustacean is supposed to taste like, apart from “a big, shit, cold prawn”, as a fellow doubter put it on Twitter. Many people I survey “can’t stand” oysters, either – dubbing them “lumps of fishy snot” – yet they still feel “it’s always embarrassing” to turn them down.It seems the more expensive the foodstuff, the more underwhelming the response, which makes me wonder whether things such as wagyu beef and abalone are the culinary equivalent of the emperor’s new clothes. Weekend magazine’s drinks critic  thinks fillet steak is “overrated”, while  describes foie gras as “a total whatevs”, and reactions to caviar in my survey range from “a bit meh” to “sickly, fishy balls of overpriced disappointment” – although it’s the traditional ritual around these tiny, salty eggs that  can’t stand. Having seen the aforementioned , Erskine confesses she is now “obsessed with it – I’ve treated myself to a tin worth more than a hundred pounds and had it with the filthiest, greasiest fried chicken … It’s such a grubby idea that I have to eat it alone.” The problem is, she says, that after that, “caviar served the classic way, with blinis, bores me”. is out and proud about a disgust of “bottomless green smoothies”, and baker  hates quinoa so much that he is moved to tell me so on two social media platforms – both feelings I can understand, although even I am puzzled by the “rampantly omnivorous” Fuchsia Dunlop’s , or ’s brave admission that she’s the only person on Instagram not to worship at the altar of avocado. A friend’s hatred of sourdough bread, meanwhile, (“Sour, sour. Chew, chew, chew. It’s not like sinking your teeth into a lovely soft bloomer, like a thick, white duvet”) seems, to me, frankly perverse. But, you know, each to their own.This is why Country & Town House magazine’s food editor ’s shame at her dislike of smoked salmon (“I can’t stand the taste. I’ve tried so hard to like it. Very embarrassing”) makes me feel a bit sad. Since when did every meal become an eating competition? Try everything once, and then eat a balanced diet of the foods that give you pleasure. And remember, life really is .Anyone who grew up in 1970s and 80s Britain will have fond memories of , the sweet gooey sauce that set to a brittle shell on contact with cheap vanilla ice-cream, just right for shattering with an aggressively wielded teaspoon. Sadly, it seems it was just too magic for the market, and it has disappeared from shelves, along with its almost equally thrilling squeezy, cone-shaped bottle. But never fear, because help is at hand from an unlikely source. Extra-virgin coconut oil may not have been a kitchen staple in the 1980s, but its high melting point means it hardens as it cools – which is exactly what we want here. For the sweet flavour of the original, albeit with a totally tropical coconut taste, add a little golden syrup. If you want to pretend sophistication, leave it out.Set a heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water and melt all the ingredients together, stirring to combine.Pour into a jug and serve with ice-cream – pour over while warm and, within 30 seconds, it should set to a shell.Killer party food. If the idea of savoury doughnuts troubles you, just think of them as slightly more substantial versions of that classic French nibble, the . These are best served warm, while the cheese is still gorgeously gooey.Combine the flour, yeast and sugar in a large bowl and mix well.Put the butter and Marmite into a small pan with the milk and 45ml of water, and heat gently, stirring until melted. Pour this into the mixing bowl along with the egg and stir until it comes together; the dough should be soft and slightly sticky.Tip on to a lightly floured surface, or (better still, as the mixture is soft) into a mixer fitted with a dough hook, and knead until smooth and elastic (about 10 minutes in a mixer, more by hand). Put into a lightly greased bowl, cover with a damp tea towel, and leave in a warm place until doubled in size (about an hour). Meanwhile, finely grate the parmesan and spread out on a plate to dry out slightly.Shape the dough into balls of about 20g each, folding each side tightly into the centre, rotating as you go, then turn the ball over and put it on a lightly floured baking tray or board, spacing them well apart. Cover and leave to rise again for 45 minutes.Meanwhile, toss the grated cheddar and gouda with the cornflour, and put in a medium pan over a low heat. Add the whole milk and allow the cheeses to melt, stirring regularly, until smooth. Keep warm.Heat the oil in a large pan or deep-fat fryer to 160°C. Cook the doughnuts in batches for about 2 minutes on each side, until golden, then blot with kitchen paper and sprinkle with parmesan. Make a small hole in the side of each, and use a piping bag to inject a splodge of cheese. Eat immediately, while they’re still warm.By southern, I don’t mean with zider and West Country cheddar, or indeed  and cornbread, but soaked in the sunny flavours of the Mediterranean. Creamy mozzarella, sweet umami-rich tomatoes and a peppery basil puree make this a treat indeed for a summer lunch. I like it just as well with baked tomatoes when they’re not quite up to eating raw, so feel free to make it with either.If you’re making this outside peak tomato season (or if your tomatoes turn out to disappoint), heat the oven to 210°C/fan 190°C/gas mark 7, then put the tomatoes on a greased baking tray (cut them in half if they’re larger than a walnut) and bake for about 20 minutes, until they start to split.Meanwhile, bring a small pan of salted water to the boil and put a large bowl of iced water next to it. Dunk the basil into the hot water for 15 seconds, then immediately scoop out with a slotted spoon and put into the iced water. Drain the basil well and dry it, then put in a small food processor, or use a stick blender or pestle and mortar to blend with the oil, adding the latter gradually until you have a smoothish puree. Add salt to taste.Toast the bread until golden, then rub with the cut garlic clove.Squish the tomatoes on top of the bread, drizzle with the basil pure, add half a burrata or mozzarella (if you’re using the former, do this on a plate so you catch any escaping cream), season and add a little more pure. Devour.An old-fashioned diner classic with a certain wow factor thanks to the contrasting layers of creamy shake and dark syrup. The syrup recipe makes more than you will need for two drinks, but keeps well in the fridge for the next time life throws you some lemons. For really bad days, add a splash of bourbon.To make the syrup, whisk together the sugar and cocoa in a small saucepan with 180ml of cold water to make a smooth paste. Bring to the boil, then turn down the heat and simmer for about 5 minutes, until slightly thickened and syrupy with a glossy sheen. Stir in the vanilla extract and season with salt to taste, then set aside to cool.Put the ice-cream and milk into a blender with half the malted-milk powder and whiz until well combined, adding a little more milk if you’d prefer it thinner. Taste and add more powder as you see fit.Pour the syrup down the side of a glass, rotating it so that it coats the inside, then carefully pour the shake into the middle so it doesn’t disturb the syrup. Top with the crushed Maltesers and serve immediately.</content>
<class_name>Food & drink,Chefs,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T16:55:05+0100</date>
<title>Truffles and Toffee Crisps: cooks on the ‘good’ food they hate – and the ‘bad’ food they love</title>
<content> think my child has been breastfed by another woman,” my friend Jennifer announces out of the blue in the middle of our kids’ play-date. Even for California, where we live, this is mind-bogglingly weird. For a start, Jennifer’s daughter Alice is two and a half. By British standards, it’s a little odd that even her own mother is still breastfeeding her, although living here I’m getting used to that kind of thing. But breastfeeding someone else’s child? A starving newborn trapped in a snowstorm maybe. But a pre-schooler whose mum has popped to the bank? I look over at Alice, so deceptively cute with her pigtails and pink sandals., I think to myself.Although the whole thing sounds like an ill-advised collaboration between the scriptwriters for Sex and the City and social services, it almost doesn’t surprise me. Increasingly these days, it seems that parenthood requires the adoption of a “parenting philosophy”, a quotable governing masterplan to build the perfect child.For Jennifer’s friend, who decided to give her daughter a quick and inappropriate breast milk snack, it’s “attachment parenting” – a theory that has taken the loosely metaphorical use of the word “attachment”, as in “I am very attached to my new kitchen blender” or “a child must be well attached to its caregiver”, and unfathomably decided it should be applied totally literally, advocating that in order to grow up psychologically healthy, a child should spend as much of its early life as possible actually physically fettered to its parent (although for parent, read mother).Attachment parents shun basic baby conveniences such as bottles, cots and buggies in favour of extended breastfeeding, co-sleeping and “babywearing”, an oddly politically charged way to describe carrying your baby in a sling. The whole philosophy is highly influential where we live, and perhaps as a result, our local parks are full of exhausted-looking women shackled to two-stone toddlers, and nobody has slept in months.When we left the UK four years ago, the opposite philosophy prevailed. Gina Ford was the baby guru of choice and parents worried less about traumatising babies by putting them down, but somehow damaging them by “overhandling” them. In this worldview, good parents enforced rigid routines. Ford babies then grew up into Supernannyed toddlers, howling away their preschool years on the naughty step, while across the Atlantic, their American counterparts had their tantrums met with cuddles and praise (or even, as advised by one recent Californian parenting advice column I read, “a relaxing foot massage with invigorating essential oils”).The philosophies themselves may be opposing, but what they share is a kind of absolutism, a high stakes alarmist tone, in which the consequences of not sticking to the script can be lifelong and dire.In reality, whichever method you choose, your kids are overwhelmingly likely to turn out just fine. There is little evidence to suggest that any one loving parenting style has any particular advantage over any other, but still both of these basic parenting worldviews are firmly rooted in a kind of underlying terror.For the routine-lovers it’s the fear that without a firm hand, a child will become coddled and dependent, lacking in resilience and unable to function in the real world. At the more cuddly end of the spectrum, it’s the heart-chilling anxiety that children are so psychologically fragile that without near constant attention they will suffer long-term emotional damage.Fed by a multi-million dollar parenting industry eager to capitalise on these anxieties, heavily invested in scaremongering about the risks of failure to comply with their chosen method, this is parenthood at its most doctrinaire and unforgiving.This climate of fear and catastrophising in which we are now parenting almost certainly goes some way towards explaining why, with surprising consistency, a large body of research shows that people who don’t have children are happier than people who do.Oddly – or not oddly at all for those of us who have spent the past hour stuck in traffic with a toddler shouting “poo-poo nugget” on endless repeat – study after study has shown that people with children are less happy than the childless (or childfree as they call themselves, while ordering another round of margaritas).One  showed that a large sample group of women were happier while engaged in almost any given activity other than caring for their own children, including housework. , a group of German academics found that the average drop in happiness in the two years following the birth of a first child is greater than that after divorce, unemployment and even the death of a partner.For most parents, this is a deeply counterintuitive finding. Most of us would agree that our children have opened up an otherwise inaccessible capacity for joy in our lives. So perhaps it is not parenthood per se that is the problem, but the increasingly anxiety ridden and intense manner in which we are going about it.. The researchers asked a group of mothers of young children how strongly they agreed or disagreed with a range of statements such as “You the mother should always provide the best, most intellectually stimulating activities to aid in your child’s development,” and “It is harder to be a good mother than a corporate executive.” After controlling for confounding factors, the data showed that the more strongly a mother agreed with these statements, and the more “intense” her attitude towards parenting in general, the unhappier she became and the greater her risk of depression, with the most intense mothers experiencing depression at a rate more than three times the level in the general population.This intensity in our approach to parenting is ramping up for almost everyone. , despite being far more likely to also work outside the home, while university-educated mothers put in a staggering extra nine hours. Much of this time is spent in what sociologists call “concerted cultivation” (think scrambling over a climbing frame two inches behind a four-year-old while maintaining an unbroken educational commentary about the park’s flora and fauna).But we should be careful. By approaching parenting in this oddly intense manner, it seems that we are sucking the joy out of life’s most important relationship. Our time with our kids is precious and fleeting. Instead of consuming it with overthinking and anxiety about terrible things that will probably never happen, we would be better off just loving them, talking to them, enjoying them and letting them know us for who we really are. And keeping our boobs to ourselves.</content>
<class_name>Family,Parents and parenting,Breastfeeding,Children,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-26T06:45:20+0000</date>
<title>Stop fetishising parenting - you’re sucking all the joy out of it!</title>
<content>hen was the last time you really stopped running around and just stood still? At a time when work, endless emails and a million distractions vie for our attention, the idea of taking time to just be present is more popular than ever.This is where sensory deprivation flotation pools come in. Flotation pools promise to give that stillness back to you, even if you have never meditated a day in your life. That said, sensory deprivation is really a misnomer, according to Justin Feinstein, a neurophysiologist who studies the effects of the practice in his laboratory at the . The pools reduce external stimulation, and thus enhance internal sensation of a person’s world, he explains.Flotation pools originated in the 1950s with a wacky researcher named , who tried to see what would happen if a person was submerged underwater for long periods of time, without the distractions of light and sound. Lilly published no scientific research, according to Feinstein, and instead wrote about his experiences taking hallucinogens while underwater. Lilly was ostracized by the scientific community, explains Feinstein, and the practice didn’t catch on.In the 1970s, when mediation and Eastern philosophy became fashionable, a much more palatable version of the flotation pool emerged, without the hallucinogens. For an hour at a time, at a spa or at someone’s home, a person could float face up in a warm tub or pool of very salty water. The temperature was set to match that of the human body, and the salt content was high enough that you could float effortlessly. With sound- and light-proofing, the desired effect was a feeling of weightlessness and a sensation that your body and the water were one.The practice faded away in the 1980s, which some attribute to the AIDS scare, when bathhouses and other communal places also closed – only to reemerge today, stronger than ever, as yoga, meditation and alternative medicine have also done. Commercial tanks have cropped up all over the country, promising an easier path to meditation and a new experience for people looking for another way to inner peace. The resurgence of flotation pools is relatively recent, says Feinstein, with the movement really coming back around 2010. In 2009, Feinstein tells me, there were only 20 flotation centers in the US. These days, he says there are over 300 places to float across the country.While the tanks offer a way to relax and self-reflect, for scientists like Feinstein, flotation also shows promise of helping people deal with anxiety. Flotation allows the nervous system a chance to relax, explains Feinstein. According to him, the level of relaxation achieved in a flotation pool is similar to what would be achieved with anti-anxiety drugs or mediation. Flotation pools also help people with anxiety become more aware of their own body: those with anxiety will often imagine that their heart is beating out of control, and a flotation pool allows them to lie still and really hear their own heart rate and breathing.“Flotation has been shown to be an effective intervention to prevent sick leave, as well as an effective treatment of stress-related disorders and chronic pain conditions,” says Kristoffer Jonsson, a PhD candidate studying the practice in the laboratory of , a psychologist and flotation researcher at Karlstad University in Sweden. Like Feinstein, Jonsson has found promising results in using flotation for the treatment of anxiety.To better understand what happens inside the flotation tank, I dropped $100 to experience an hour of senselessness at , in trendy Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn. While a number of tanks have popped up at spas all over New York City, Lift is devoted exclusively to flotation. Situated on a busy shopping street, the flotation center is eerily still. The silent waiting room is outfitted with comfy couches, herbal tea and books by Oliver Sacks and Buddhist scholars. At Lift, the flotation tank looks like a cross between a sleek car top carrier and a huge bidet. After a shower, you enter the pod, close it, turn a dial inside the pod to turn off all light, and lie still. Despite the fact that you are lying naked in a huge plastic tub, I felt calm as soon as the lights went out. The pod felt like a cocoon – albeit one I kept gently bumping into in my first restless minutes.The experience really does remind you how seldom we are alone and in silence with our thoughts, outside of the time when we are trying to fall asleep. If you have trouble shutting out the world, says Sam Zeiger, flotation shuts it out for you. Zeiger has operated a  in New York since 1985, and runs the only commercial flotation business that has survived since the last time flotation was in fashion.One of its most profound effects was the feeling that for the next hour there was nowhere I needed to be and nothing I needed to do, but relax and float in the warm water until I felt dissolved.That sense of calm is a big reason people use flotation tanks, says Zeiger, who refers to flotation as a “mini retreat” that gives you a rest from “gravity and outside sensory input”.“The greatest gift is the gift of having a little pause in your life, stopping the wheels that we have to be doing something or achieving something and just be yourself,” he explains to me.Preliminary brain imaging data also implies flotation has the same effect on the brain as some anti-anxiety drugs, says Feinstein. In his research, he compared brain imaging of people given the anti-anxiety drug Ativan to people who had floated and found the same dampening of the amygdala, the part of the brain responsible for emotion and survival instincts.My amygdala potentially dampened, I stopped fidgeting and was finally able to lie still without touching anything in the pod. Your sense of time is the first thing to go as you float. Without a watch or any outside cues, the difference between 10 minutes and 30 minutes totally disappears. At first I kept thinking about this article, and trying to remember every part of the experience so I could relay it, but after some time, my mind started to drift. As I allowed myself to relax, I seemed to enter a half asleep state.“A lot of people talk about being in this liminal state between sleeping and waking” Feinstein explains, an idea echoed by Zeiger, who has been floating for years.“Right before we fall asleep, we are in that state with disconnected thoughts and little insights that only last a few seconds before we fall asleep. In the float tank, you hang in that state for long periods of time,” Zeiger explains.As I lay there, groggy but awake, I couldn’t help thinking, “My god, the world is so beautiful.” (This despite the fact that my non-pod self would probably roll her eyes at the hokeyness of this sentiment.) Newly sprouted flowers pushing up through the earth, warm sunshine, the feeling of being close to my family – it was all so wonderful. If I could just ignore politics and world news, pretend to live in this little bubble, and focus on this moment and this day, it would all be bursting with happiness and light. In Feinstein’s research, in addition to reduced anxiety, he had told me that subjects typically report a feeling of serenity when they float. In my case, I found myself smiling into the dark.Before I knew it, a soothing recorded voice piped up to ask me to exit the tank so the water could be changed. I felt a rush of euphoria as I exited the tank, which in my happy state suddenly seemed more like a clam shell than a bidet. The euphoria unfortunately did not last beyond a few minutes out of the tank. By the time I was going through the acrobatics of trying to put my jeans back on without stepping into a puddle of water on the floor, I was more or less back to my normal self.I walked back into the waiting room and sat on the couch sipping chamomile tea and wondering at how loud and overwhelming the Brooklyn street outside now seemed. I can’t say that single experience had a lasting impact, but it was restful to have had an hour in that warm plastic cocoon.Feinstein hopes to gather more data over the next five to 10 years on exactly what happens to the brain during a float session and whether it has long term effects. If the data supports it, he would be happy to see this become a therapeutic treatment for anxiety.While he admits more research is needed, Jonsson sees a place for flotation in current treatment, pointing out that methods supported by less scientific evidence, like massage and acupuncture, are already used in healthcare.With a resurgence in flotation, it’s possible that one day people will float regularly to reduce stress at the suggestion of their doctor. For now, it remains a somewhat pricey, somewhat brief retreat from reality.</content>
<class_name>Health,Anxiety,Psychology,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:21:54+0100</date>
<title>Suffer from anxiety? Try a sensory deprivation tank</title>
<content>The  has deep roots. Globalisation and the opening-up of world markets; a slowdown in Chinese manufacturing, creating massive over-capacity in its steel plants; a subsequent boom in cheap Chinese exports and a collapse in the global steel price. Those pressures have become intense since 2012: but the story of steel in the UK has also been one of a 40-year decline in output and employment. In the early 1970s, the UK industry was producing almost 29m tonnes and employing 325,000 people; by last year, the figures were 12.5m tonnes and 30,000 people.But decline is also relative. The business, innovation and skills (BIS) select committee, in , made an important point: other major EU countries, notably Germany, Italy, France and Spain, have done better at protecting their steel industries. In terms of production, the UK has been bottom of that mini league table since 2001, having once been second only to Germany.Should the UK government – and successive governments – have foreseen the crisis? Could it have been handled better? What could politicians have done differently?The UK steel industry has complained bitterly for years that it pays higher energy costs than European peers. The  quoted in the BIS committee report make the point. In 2014, UK steelmakers paid about 80% above the EU median for their electricity. UK government policies to meet legally binding targets to reduce carbon emissions are partly responsible. Yet the desire to give a helping hand to heavy industries was also recognised in the 2011 autumn statement via the Energy-intensive Industries Package.In practice, the full package was only implemented last year. The BIS committee commented: “Successive governments have not prioritised the issue sufficiently to force it up the agenda at the European commission, which could have approved the full package years ago. This delay has directly affected the competitiveness of the UK steel industry and been a contributory factor to the current crisis.”Compensation packages and exceptions from environmental taxes have costs elsewhere, of course: in the end, other consumers are obliged to pay. But the point seems clear – the government was prepared to help steel, but actual remedies were slow to arrive.UK steel companies have claimed they pay up to seven times as much in business rates than European competitors. They have argued that the UK business rate regime discourages investment in new plant and machinery. The BIS committee sympathised: “We recommend that the government demonstrates its support for rebalancing the economy towards manufacturing, and the steel industry, by reforming business rates.”In the event, the chancellor’s budget this month was  than to steel, which was mentioned only once in the context of the protections from climate change levies.Here the government was a belated convert to the idea of helping UK steel producers compete for UK public-sector contracts.  to “help steel producers compete on a level playing field with international suppliers”.The worry, however, is that other EU countries would be less fussy and would actively tilt the playing field. Look at , the proposed new nuclear power station in Somerset. While EDF, the constructor, says the project is a “big opportunity for UK steel” and there is an “expectation” that a large proportion will come from the UK, everything is subject to a competitive process. Quite right too, purists would say: Hinkley Point is already hideously expensive. It is hard, though, to believe that all EU countries wouldn’t favour their own steelmakers more explicitly.As for the government’s new procurement guidelines, the BIS committee said: “The impact of these changes will not be apparent for some considerable time. We regret that this change in policy was not made many months, if not years, earlier.”The UK has flip-flopped on the . Anti-protectionism used to be the philosophy but the UK backed an extension of long-standing tariffs on wire rod steel last year. “Successive governments should have done much more to press for accelerated action at the EU,” concluded the BIS committee.Another difficulty is that the US is faster and more determined than the EU to impose tariffs when it judges that illegal Chinese dumping is taken place. But there is also a suspicion – again identified by the committee – that UK steelmakers are uniquely vulnerable to Chinese imports because other EU countries interpret European law to suit their own industries, albeit sometimes falling foul of the European commission’s state aid rules.Here the charge is that the government’s warm words about the importance of the steel industry as part of a manufacturing revival have not been met by action until the  crisis led to a government-sponsored “steel summit” last October. “The government identified steel as an industry of vital importance but, like its predecessors, did not have the effective early warning systems in place to detect and address mounting problems,” said the BIS committee.Even the speed of the current crisis at Tata Steel appears to have taken ministers by surprise. At the start of this week, Whitehall officials did not believe that the Indian firm would put all its UK steel assets up for sale. Almost by default, the government has adopted a holding position while it, and , seek private buyers. But, if no bidders emerge for a business said to be losing £1m a day, the size and nature of any government-sponsored rescue plan is a mystery.</content>
<class_name>Steel industry,Tata,Corus,Manufacturing sector,India,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T15:33:53+0100</date>
<title>Who is to blame for the steel crisis?</title>
<content>t was 3am. I went into my daughter’s room, woke her, told her I loved her and that she was going on a trip. She was drowsy from the sleeping pills I’d slipped in her drink a few hours earlier. Then the two strangers I’d hired to take her away went into her room. She tried to get her bag and makeup. “Where you’re going, you don’t need anything,” they told her. I stood outside the door, shaking. Had I just created a situation in which I would lose my 17-year-old for ever?I’d quit a successful financial career and moved across the country to bring up my daughter and son in Florida, so we’d have time as a family after their father and I divorced. I loved them fiercely and we were close. They knew I had high hopes for them. But at 17, my daughter started hanging around with different people; her straight-A grades dropped and her attitude changed. We started to fight about her going to school. “Even if you drive me there, you can’t make me go inside,” she would say. Then she told me she had decided to quit school to become a high-end hairdresser and wanted me to pay for her to go to beauty school. I was distraught. There is nothing wrong with hairdressing, but I wanted her to get a proper education first, so she would have choices.Around the same time, police twice caught her 14-year-old brother with drugs. I wasn’t having it a third time, so I sent him away to a strict boarding school in another state. On a weekend visit, it struck me how much he’d changed and how my daughter would benefit from the same intensive treatment.But I had to act fast. Her beauty school fees were due the coming Saturday. And, legally, I had control over her only while she was still under 18. I found a boot camp for troubled children in Utah and hired a private service to escort her there, whether she wanted to go or not. That Friday night we went to dinner on the pretence that it was to celebrate her new school. It was actually to stop her seeing friends and ensure she’d be home for the escorts.After their appearance in the middle of the night, the security service flew with her to the Utah desert. That first day I grieved. I knew deep down I was right, but I didn’t know if my daughter would forgive me: I had to be prepared to lose her in order to help her. Her friends called and I said she’d gone on a trip. “Where did she go? When will she be back?” they asked. I told them I didn’t know.I had paid $16,000 (£11,380) for seven weeks of gruelling physical and mental challenges. The other kids were in desperate situations: young offenders, drug addicts, some were suicidal. I was aware my daughter didn’t share their circumstances. They lived like cavemen: they didn’t see a roof the whole time, took care of their sanitary waste, learned survival skills and did physical labour; some cut off their hair because they couldn’t bathe.They had daily therapy and wrote letters to their parents. My daughter’s were full of apology: how she had made mistakes, wanted to be forgiven, how she loved me. Sure, she was angry at first when she didn’t know what was going on, but she soon understood why I’d sent her there and was embarrassed.At the end, parents were taken into the desert to be reunited with their kids. We could see them walking towards us from a mile away. I was scared. I didn’t know how my daughter would react. Then I spotted her; she was muscular and dirty. We hugged and cried. She was back to the daughter I knew, the one without the attitude.She finished high school with straight As, went to college, then did a master’s. She works in the legal system now. Both my kids joke that I’m a psycho mom, but they forgave me and we remain close. It’s the most difficult thing I’ve ever done. Could they have got where they are today without such drastic action? Perhaps, but it wasn’t a chance I was willing to take. I believe the more we suffer in life, the more we grow. I have two strong, amazing kids, and I’d do it again. As told to Candice Pires. Raye Johnson is a pseudonym.Do you have an experience to share? Email </content>
<class_name>Parents and parenting,Family,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-25T14:00:19+0000</date>
<title>Experience: I paid to have my daughter kidnapped</title>
<content> has flown back to Britain for emergency talks with ministers over the financial crisis engulfing Tata Steel’s British operation – amid warnings that the firm has just weeks to secure a rescue deal on which up to 40,000 jobs could depend.The Indian-owned company said it was losing £1m a day, with a source claiming that the government’s failure to back calls in Europe for higher tariffs against cheap Chinese imports was the “last straw”, prompting the decision to sell the business that was once British Steel and more recently . of being in “disarray” as Cameron and his business secretary, Sajid Javid, scrambled back to the UK after Tata announced it would be  including the Port Talbot steelworks in south Wales as well as sites at Rotherham in South Yorkshire, Corby in Northamptonshire and Shotton in Deeside. has urged Cameron to treat the unfolding situation as a national crisis by recalling parliament and considering bringing Britain’s ailing steel industry back into public ownership.However, Javid rejected the idea of nationalisation, which government officials believe will carry a pricetag of £1.5bn a year. “I don’t think that nationalisation is going to be the solution,” said Javid. “I think everyone would want a long-term viable solution and, if you look around Europe and elsewhere, I think nationalisation is rarely the answer, particularly if you take into account the big challenges the industry faces.”But the government is thought to be considering other forms of aid, including stepping in with temporary financial support during the search for a buyer.The prime minister will travel to Washington DC on Thursday where dozens of world leaders are gathering for the Nuclear Security Summit, hosted by the US president, Barack Obama. Cameron is expected to raise the issue of  Steel with the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi.The financial problems facing Tata are so significant that the value of its British steel operations are now “almost zero”. The company source said Tata was now prepared to “give it away for nothing”. They warned that Tata had tried and failed to find a buyer over the past 18 months because of the amount of money needed to get the company back on track.“They have spent nearly £4bn in the last eight years. It would need another £4bn.” The company’s pension costs are a “huge problem”, they added, with Tata warning last year that it faced a £2bn pension deficit in the UK. The decision to sell the operation could cost 15,000 jobs inside the company but the thinktank IPPR said that up to 40,000 could be affected more widely across the supply chain.Tata’s decision came after  to scrap a regulation known as the “lesser duty rule”, which would have allowed the EU to increase tariffs on Chinese steel beyond the current 9%. The government said this would lead to higher costs for users of steel and was not a proportionate response.The government was also accused of failing to support British industry last year when it emerged that the Ministry of Defence would use Swedish steel for a multibillion pound contract for armoured cars and ships. Officials said rules had been changed to make that less likely in future. Labour was able to dominate the debate about the future of Britain’s steelworks because key government figures were out of the country when the decision was taken by Tata’s board late on Tuesday. Cameron was on holiday in Lanzarote, while Javid was in Australia, despite knowing that the decision was likely to be made this week. Photographs of the business secretary at a black tie dinner in Sydney on Wednesday proved embarrassing for the government.George Osborne is in Paris for G20 talks, where he will raise the issue of Tata Steel with European counterparts. Corbyn cut short a holiday in the UK to head to the Port Talbot plant. He wrote to the prime minister to warn that the move had put “thousands of jobs” and “a strategic UK-wide industry” at risk. “Steelworkers and their families will be desperately worried about the uncertainty. The government is in disarray over what action to take. Ministers must act now to protect the steel industry, which is at the heart of manufacturing in Britain and vital to its future,” he added.He accused the government of flip-flopping because of a suggestion from the minister Anna Soubry that part-nationalisation would be considered as part of a rescue. Corbyn said he was shocked to hear Javid pull the option off the table. Roy Rickhuss of the Community trade union said: “Seeing confusion and mixed messages from ministers will only increase the worry of steelworkers across the UK. “The fact that one minute they are saying they are looking at all the options and the next they’re saying some form of nationalisation is not a solution shows a government divided and without the political will to take the tough action necessary to save our industry.”Stephen Kinnock, the Labour MP for Aberavon, where the Port Talbot plant is located, travelled with Rickhuss to Mumbai for last-minute talks with Tata, in which they tried to persuade the company to consider keeping hold of the operations.He said the government had not offered support to the delegation and accused ministers of failing to take action to protect British steel, which has been in decline as a result of Chinese dumping.“We are rolling out the red carpet for Beijing,” he said, arguing that Britain – and particularly Osborne – was pushing for China to get market economy status at the World Trade Organisation despite the fact that the vast majority of its steel industry was state-owned. He described Britain as a “ringleader” in blocking European commission attempts to improve anti-dumping policies.“They are in hock to China. Our commercial policy, our approach to trade and manufacturing, and our overall industrial strategy, is being dictated by Beijing.” Javid spoke on the phone with the Tata Steel chairman, Cyrus Mistry, in what sources called a “constructive” conversation.The prime minister spoke to the Welsh first minister, Carwyn Jones, to discuss the “urgent” situation.A Downing Street spokesperson said: “Both the PM and first minister agreed it was an extremely worrying time for the workers and wider community in Port Talbot, and south  more broadly. They also agreed that the UK and Welsh governments would continue to work together closely to do everything possible to secure the future of steelmaking at Port Talbot and elsewhere in the UK.“The PM and first minister pledged to work to support a sales process that delivers a sustainable long-term future for the plant. They also agreed to remain in close contact in the days ahead at both official and ministerial level.”The situation has been seized on by Brexit campaigners with Labour MP Kate Hoey saying EU “regulations on energy production are killing our steel industry”. But Remain supporters say Britain was the country holding back the EU from taking action against China. Port Talbot, and other Tata sites with blast furnaces that actually make steel, are understood be particularly at risk because the financial losses are so large. Senior staff at Port Talbot are thought to be willing to launch a management buyout, but this is likely to need the unions to agree to cuts to the pension scheme and financial support from the government.Tata has written off £2bn from the value of its UK assets, meaning they are effectively worthless. Koushik Chatterjee, the finance director of Tata Steel, said the UK business had become “quite a burden for the company” and that the board had decided “we can’t sustain this kind of exposure”.</content>
<class_name>Tata,Steel industry,Wales,David Cameron,Sajid Javid,Corus,India,Manufacturing sector,Jeremy Corbyn,Trade unions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T21:54:33+0100</date>
<title>Tata Steel crisis leaves government ministers in ‘disarray’</title>
<content>More than 6 million workers will suffer an unexpected pay cut from next month due to a little-noticed change to state pension rules that will net the Treasury almost £5.5bn a year.The move will also push up costs for many employers, including schools, hospitals and GP practices.From 6 April a sizeable chunk of the UK workforce will see their national insurance costs increase by 1.4%, which translates into a deduction from their pay of up to £37 a month. This change was announced in the March 2013 budget but is only taking effect now.The move is linked to the introduction next month of , which will replace what the government said was a “mindblowingly complicated” existing system. Those reaching state pension age on or after 6 April 2016 will get the new regular payment, which has been set at £155.65 a week.As part of the shakeup, the state second pension – also known as S2P and formerly known as Serps – will be abolished. As a result, members of defined benefit workplace pension schemes will no longer be permitted to “contract out” of the state second pension. At the moment these workers and their employers pay national insurance at a lower rate – but this will end from next month.This affects millions of people: there are 1.3 million active members of contracted-out private sector schemes, plus a further 5.4 million members of public sector pension schemes. The vast majority of the public sector pension scheme members are currently contracted out, said Tom McPhail, head of retirement policy at investment and pension firm Hargreaves Lansdown.“All these people are about to see their national insurance costs increase by 1.4%, which could mean a monthly deduction from their pay of up to an additional £37.31 a month in national insurance,” he added.Treasury  stated that this change would raise just under £5.5bn in 2016-17 and a little over £5.4bn in 2017-18.Unison, the trade union, ” and said it would take workers by surprise.The government said the “vast majority” of affected employees would end up receiving more state pension under the new scheme as a result of the changes.Steve Webb, a former pension minister who is now director of policy at life and pensions company Royal London, said that for employees it was a case of “something for something”. While those affected would have to pay more national insurance, in most cases they would build up a bigger state pension.But he added: “For the employers it’s just a cash hit. If you’re a school, a hospital, a GP practice, it’s an increase in your wage bill, with no extra money to compensate. It’s a multibillion-pound squeeze on public services.”</content>
<class_name>Pensions,National insurance,Tax,Budget,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-28T19:34:45+0100</date>
<title>New pension rules will see 6 million workers lose up to £37 a month</title>
<content> It will surprise most people that, according to the Data Protection Act, companies have no obligation to inform customers of a breach. The Information Commissioner’s Office guidelines merely state that they should “consider notifying the individuals concerned”, along with banks and authorities, to help them take precautionary steps if there’s the chance they are at risk. Service providers such as telecoms firms are the exception and must inform customers of any security concerns.Otherwise, the emphasis is on damage limitation and recovery but this (as Talk Talk customers have discovered) does not necessarily mean that you will get your money back if the leak of personal information allows thieves to defraud you.</content>
<class_name>Data protection,Online shopping,Consumer rights,Consumer affairs,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T08:01:01+0100</date>
<title>Why you might not be warned of an online security breach</title>
<content>  My fiance and I have just reached our savings goal for our wedding next year and we think that we can now redirect our savings elsewhere. However, we would really benefit from some advice.We currently pay around £750 on our five-year, fixed-rate mortgage every month. Because it was just me who bought the property originally, now that there are two of us, paying that amount each month is much easier. So much so that we think we’re now able to save about £1,800 a month. Saving that amount of money (especially in the current climate) has raised a couple of questions.Rather than just saving the money (with the idea that one day it may be beneficial in terms of a house deposit for a larger property), should we be making overpayments on the mortgage? Can we do this? And is “over paying” the same thing as “early repayments”? What advice can you give us about using this money to reduce the debt we owe on the mortgage?Alternatively, should we be looking at those savings with a view to paying off the equity loan (with the Help to Buy scheme)? The loan was worth £39,000 at the time of purchase. However, am I right in thinking that this is actually calculated based on the current value of the property, in which case, it would be worth more now and therefore a larger sum to repay?In terms of our next move after this, we’d like to buy somewhere a little bigger but think that realistically we’re likely to need to do Help to Buy again. Can we do that and how does it work if you already own a home through Help to Buy? Does it matter? If we had the option to move in with my parents and therefore put ourselves in a position more akin to first time buyers with no chain would that be preferable? I am guessing so; but presumably it doesn’t change the fact that we’re doing Help to Buy for the second time?  Both the government-backed equity loan and mortgage guarantee Help to Buy schemes are available to homeowners looking to move as well as first-time buyers; it’s only the new Help to Buy ISA which is restricted to first-time buyers. And there is nothing in the Help to Buy guidance that suggests that you can’t use the scheme you are eligible for two times in a row. The main restriction with Help to Buy is that it is not available to people who “will own any property other than their Help to Buy property after completing their purchase”. So as long as you sell and buy on the same day, you should be eligible for Help to Buy as a home mover.As far as paying off your equity loan goes, you are right in thinking that it is calculated based on the current value of the property using the percentage share that the equity loan represented when you bought it. So if you took out the maximum 20% Help to Buy equity loan (or maximum 40% in London) you would have to pay back 20% of the current value of your home. But you don’t have to wait until you sell the property to pay it back. You can make voluntary part – or full – repayment of the equity loan at any time provided it is at least 10% of the market value of the home at the time the repayment is made. What the market value is must be determined by an independent valuer whose fee you must pay as well as a Help to Buy administration fee of £200 (including VAT).There is no interest on the equity loan in the first five years as the government’s way of encouraging people to pay it back in that time. If house prices keep rising, so will the amount you owe so the sooner you pay it off, the better. Using your surplus savings to do so would seem to make sense if you can manage to save up the required minimum of 10% of the current value of the property. If you can continue to save £1,800 a month for the next two years, you would have amassed £43,200 which may be enough provided house prices don’t go mad in the meantime. If you can repay the whole of the equity loan by the time you come to sell up and move elsewhere, you’ll get to use the whole of the sale proceeds (after repaying the mortgage) to put towards a deposit on your next home. This may mean that you don’t need to use the Help to Buy scheme at all especially if, with your joint earnings you could afford a bigger mortgage.The alternative to repaying the equity loan, would, as you say, be to repay – or overpay – your mortgage but you need to check its terms and conditions. A lot of fixed-rate mortgages don’t let you pay more than 10% of the outstanding loan each year and charge a hefty early repayment fee if you do.</content>
<class_name>Mortgages,Property,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:00:06+0100</date>
<title>Should we be making overpayments on our mortgage?</title>
<content>Buy-to-let landlords, estate agents, mortgage lenders and solicitors firms are locked in a last-minute battle to complete property deals before a stamp duty rise that takes effect at midnight on Friday.Following  in November last year, anyone buying a home that is not their main residence will have to pay a 3% stamp duty surcharge from Friday. The introduction of the measure, designed to put a brake on the runaway buy-to-let market, was delayed until 1 April, to give those in the middle of existing purchases time to complete before the new tax charge. From midnight on Friday, the stamp duty payable on a second home sold in England and Wales for £200,000 will rise from £1,500 to £7,500. Estate agents have reported a frenzy of activity as buyers rush to beat the higher charge. Paul Smith, chief executive of Britain’s biggest estate agent chain, Haart, said branches had had a flood of calls over the last week. “In London we have seen a 35% increase in exchange activity in the last week as buyers rush to complete in time for the stamp duty deadline. We’ve been especially busy in north and east London, which are very popular areas for buy to let. Outside of London and the home counties the effect of the stamp duty change has been less noticeable.” He predicted many deals would be running late into the evening, and that some would fall short of the deadline, particularly where the solicitor did not have access to the funds to complete the purchase.Rob Hailstone, of the Bold Legal Group, painted a similar picture, saying it had been ridiculously busy as buyers rushed to beat the deadline.Martin Baum, the president of the National Association of Estate Agents, was similarly predicting a crazy day.“We’ve all got a bottleneck, and a huge amount of deals before the deadline. I’ve heard of estate agents and conveyancers staying open till 10pm, and then opening again at 5am this morning.”Experts said the problems had been compounded by the fact that some of the fine detail was only announced in the budget just over two weeks ago. The Council of Mortgage Lenders has predicted a distortion in the market as buyers rush to beat the deadline.David Hollingworth, of mortgage brokers London & Country, predicted many buyers would be “biting their nails”, as they attempted to complete their purchase before the deadline.“We certainly saw a spike in buy-to-let purchase applications after the announcement last November, particularly in January and February this year. I expect that those mulling over a purchase sharpened their focus and brought forward their plans.”He said overall the industry was waiting to see how Osborne’s measures plus changes to the way buy-to-let investors are taxed affect the market in the longer term. The Association of Residential Letting Agents (Arla) has already warned that the clampdown on buy-to-let investors will have a major affect on the market. “We’re about to see supply nose-dive, demand sky-rocket and rent prices go through the roof. The introduction of the new stamp duty charges is set to push the private rental sector into a state of despair,” said David Cox, Arla’s managing director.</content>
<class_name>Stamp duty,Buying to let,Tax,Property,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:07:43+0100</date>
<title>Buy-to-let investors rush to complete before stamp duty rise</title>
<content> Pants to Poverty, which sells pants of Fairtrade cotton and says it supports 5,000 farmers in India, was launched as part of the Make Poverty History campaign in 2005 and has become a prominent voice in ethical fashion. Its website claims that most consumers want companies to be more transparent and that it is starting to democratise its business. It is going about the process in a singular fashion for a company that prides itself on its ethical credentials. Its phone number, as you say, is out of service and their chat facility is unavailable.When Trading Standards visited its London office following a number of complaints from out-of-pocket shoppers, officers found it empty.“The building’s owners say the trader left about a month ago with no forwarding details,” says a spokesman for Tower Hamlets council. “We’re advising Companies House that we believe the address to no longer be valid.”Pants to Poverty founder Ben Ramsden blogged a week before you placed your order that the company had run out of money and had had to lay off all its staff and move to Hastings. He promised that new investors will enable him to relaunch bigger and better in the coming months. There is no mention of any of this on the main website which is still offering pants for up to £15 a pair and a year’s supply of undies for £170 and Ramsden was happy to take your money despite admitting that “things have ground to a standstill”.So things are not looking good for customers still awaiting their goods. Most will not be entitled to reclaim their money via Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act which requires a minimum spend of £100. Your best bet, if you paid by card, is to use the chargeback scheme and ask your card issuer to try to retrieve your money.However this scheme, which is not enshrined in law, does not hold the card issuer jointly liable and if the money is not in the merchant’s account to be retrieved you won’t see any of it again.Just before this column went to press, you received an email from Flint Development Group which says it is managing Pants to Poverty with an option to take over the shares. It says that “due to gaps in the documentation” it has experienced “difficulties with customer service”, but you will be refunded.</content>
<class_name>Ethical business,Ethical and green living,Consumer affairs,Consumer rights,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T08:01:09+0100</date>
<title>Pants to Poverty drops its ethical stance</title>
<content>The UK steel industry has been thrown into its biggest crisis for a generation after , putting at least 15,000 jobs at risk. Campaigners for Britain to leave the EU say the turmoil supports their argument. But would Brexit really help Britain’s steel industry? have put increasing pressure on steelworks. Demand for the metal in the UK has never recovered since the financial crisis, remaining 30% lower than pre-2008 levels, while energy costs, business rates, and environmental taxes have further squeezed the industry. However, Tata and other steelmakers argue that the biggest problem is China dumping steel into Europe. The majority of Chinese steelmakers are state-owned and are estimated to have lost billions of dollars in 2015 as domestic demand slowed. In response, the Chinese steelmakers are trying to increase the amount of steel they export. Steel exports from China to Europe have more than doubled since 2013, helping to send the price of the metal down to roughly half 2011 levels.Simplistically, yes: it could introduce tariffs. One of the reasons China is dumping so much steel into Europe is that other countries have introduced heavy tariffs on such exports the US, for example, has slapped 236% on Chinese steel. Crucially, India has also introduced tariffs, with steel prices predicted to grow by 15% in the country in the first six months of 2016 as a result. This has led to pressure being put on  Steel in India to pull out of the UK and focus on the growing domestic market.. In fact, at a meeting last month, it was Britain which opposed a plan to scrap a regulation known as the “lesser duty rule”, which would have allowed the EU to increase tariffs on Chinese steel beyond the 9% they sit at. Sajid Javid, the business secretary, argued that this would lead to higher prices for businesses that buy steel. He said: “There are many British companies ... that would tell you if duties got out of control ... then it would cost them jobs and growth and it would certainly cut their exports.” Downing Street has subsequently argued that Britain is in favour of higher tariffs, but that scrapping the “lesser duty rule” was not a proportionate response and could lead to protectionism.The inability of the member states to introduce higher tariffs appears to be an example of European bureaucracy leading to a slow response to a crisis. However, the ambiguity of the government’s position means that is far from clear whether the Conservative government would have introduced higher tariffs if Britain was outside the EU anyway. Britain is also bound by the rules of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), to which China was admitted in 2001, and any trade agreements it would sign in the event of Brexit. Procurement and state-aid rules mean the government cannot simply hand every state infrastructure project to Tata or hand over cash to prop up Port Talbot. For example, the EU has called for Belgium to take back €211m of state aid used to prop up steelmaker Duferco Group, while an investigation has been launched into Italy’s support for Ilva. The Belgian support was considered illegal because “you could not find a market investor that would give them the kinds of loans they got from the authorities”. But again,  There are also ways around the rules, such as offering loans instead of cash. While the EU blocks support for “manufacturers in difficulties”, it allows nurturing the “long-term competitiveness and efficiency” of industry.According to Javid, the EU helps to protect the British steel industry from retaliation in the event of higher tariffs being introduced and ithas the power to slow the flow of Chinese imports. Labour agrees, but claims the government is trying to use the EU to hide its inaction over the crisis. Angela Eagle, the Labour business spokeswoman, has questioned why the government supports handing China market economy status within the WTO, which would severely limit the ability to introduce new tariffs. “Granting market economy status to China in the absence of important safeguards would significantly diminish the capacity of the European Union to guard against Chinese dumping and it has the potential to destroy the UK industry,” she told parliament last month. In addition, other problems facing the steel industry, such as energy prices and business rates, are issues specific to the UK.</content>
<class_name>Steel industry,Tata,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T12:16:03+0100</date>
<title>Would Brexit help Britain’s steel industry?</title>
<content> has said his government is “not ruling anything out” when it comes to helping to rescue the British steel industry, but warned that he does not believe that nationalisation is the right answer.The idea of placing plants in public ownership following the financial crisis that led to  Steel deciding to sell its British operations was seen as the least viable option during an emergency meeting between the prime minister and his ministers.The idea of part-nationalisation appeared to be under consideration on Wednesday morning, but the Guardian understands that government officials had warned it could carry a price tag of £1.5bn a year. Ideas that are being seriously considered include a cash injection into the industry while a buyer is found. Ministers are also trying to persuade Tata Steel to keep things afloat. But a company source told the Guardian they had already been looking for a buyer for 18 months and were not ready to give the operation away for “nothing”.The Labour leader, Jeremy Corbyn, had said he was “shocked” by the idea of ministers taking nationalisation off the table, as estimates suggested there were up to 40,000 jobs on the line.Speaking after the meeting, Cameron promised the government would do “everything we can”. “The situation is of deep concern,” he admitted and there were “no guarantees of success”. He said he knew how important the jobs were – in Port Talbot and other steel plants across Britain. “We are not ruling anything out. I don’t believe nationalisation is the right answer, what we want to do is secure a long-term future for Port Talbot and for other steel plants in the UK.”The prime minister said his ministers had been working for months to help the industry, “to make sure that we procure British steel for our ships and for other vital industries in the UK”. “We’ve cut the energy costs – and with others in Europe we’ve made sure that there are proper penalties for those that dump cheap steel on the market. But this industry is in difficulty across the world, there has been a collapse in prices, there is overcapacity, but we are doing everything we can.”His defence of the government followed criticism from some who said ministers had “rolled out the red carpet” for Beijing by voting against changes to the “lesser duty rule” in Europe, which would allow tougher action on Chinese dumping including higher tariffs.The crisis has triggered a row over whether Britain’s place in the EU has worsened the situation and placed British jobs at risk. Pro-EU supporters point out that other European countries have pushed for higher tariffs and done more to protect their industries, but Brexit campaigners point out how the US has been much more effective at protecting its steel industry. Cameron also tweeted:The shadow chancellor, , had called on the government to “get a grip” as Cameron began the emergency discussions.McDonnell reiterated Labour’s call for a temporary nationalisation of the Indian-owned company’s UK plants and said Cameron should swiftly come up with a plan to save jobs, one on which he could get cross-party consensus.“The prime minister could take a lead in this. The government’s been in a bit of disarray over the last 48 hours,” McDonnell told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, noting that the junior business minister Anna Soubry had hinted at possible nationalisation before the business secretary, Sajid Javid, ruled it out.“There’s a bit of chaos in government and we’re trying to say, look, get a grip now and then come to parliament with a clear plan that hopefully we can back on a cross-party basis,” McDonnell said.Javid was not present at the Downing Street meeting, because he was still travelling back from Australia, while George Osborne was in Paris for a meeting of the G20 finance ministers. Osborne said he had raised the “vital issue of steel” during his meeting.Those present at Cameron’s meeting in London included Soubry, Alun Cairns, the Welsh secretary, and Stephen Crabb, the work and pensions secretary and former Welsh secretary. Arriving at Downing Street for the meeting, Soubry was asked if the government would let Welsh steel fail. “I hope not,” she replied.Cameron returned from holiday in Lanzarote on Wednesday, while Javid was flying back from Australia after Tata announced it would be  including the Port Talbot works in south Wales as well as sites at Rotherham in South Yorkshire, Corby in Northamptonshire and Shotton in Deeside.The company said it was losing £1m a day, with a source claiming that the government’s failure to back calls in Europe for higher tariffs against cheap Chinese imports was the last straw, prompting the decision to sell the business that was once British Steel and more recently .The decision to sell the operation could cost 15,000 jobs inside the company but the thinktank IPPR said that up to 40,000 could be affected more widely across the supply chain.McDonnell said Labour was proposing a four-point plan, comprising temporary nationalisation, restructuring of the business, reduced business rates and the use of British steel in public procurement.Asked whether the billions of pounds in likely spending to achieve this could be justified, McDonnell said that the industry could be made sustainable if it could “weather the storm” it currently faced. “Because in the long term it will prove cost-effective,” he said. “It isn’t just the cost of losing those jobs. As we’ve seen elsewhere, it’s the cost of devastation of whole communities. Remember, we will be paying out in unemployment and other benefits to those people who lose their jobs. Isn’t it better to keep them in work?”Also speaking on the Today programme, Len McCluskey, general secretary of the Unite trade union, said there was a comparison to be made with the bailout of the banks amid the 2008 financial crisis.“Yes. Undoubtedly,” he said. “The National Audit Office tells us that we put one thousand billion of British taxpayers’ money into the banks in order to secure their continued survival because the governments of the day thought it was important for the country as a whole and that’s precisely what we should be doing now.“That’s why we should be appealing to the prime minister to take personal responsibility to recall parliament. This is an industrial crisis of enormous proportions, not just affecting the 40,000 or 50,000 or 60,000 jobs that you mentioned, but it indeed affecting the whole of our manufacturing base.“It’s absolutely essential that a foundation industry like steel is protected in order that we can have the much vaunted ‘march of the makers’ that the government talks about.”</content>
<class_name>Steel industry,Economic policy,Tata,David Cameron,John McDonnell,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T10:40:36+0100</date>
<title>Nationalisation not the answer to steel crisis, says David Cameron</title>
<content>From 1 April 2016 anyone buying a second home for any reason will pay a higher rate of stamp duty than someone buying a property which will be their main home.  – or more precisely stamp duty land tax (SDLT) – is a tax paid by homebuyers when they buy property or land. On your main home the tax is paid if the purchase price is over £125,000. The amount paid is assessed on a tiered basis.You can find out exactly how much you need to pay using a .To give you an idea, on a house costing £100,000 that you plan to live in there would be no bill to pay. On a £200,000 property you would pay £1,500, and if you were spending £350,000 on a new home you would pay £7,500. Someone buying a £1m home would face a bill of £43,750. Any second homes attract a higher rate.Anything other than your main residence – it could be a holiday let, a property bought as an investment or somewhere you are helping another family member to buy.This surcharge will also apply even if the main home you currently own is overseas.You will pay the duty on any property costing £40,000 or more. For each tier you would pay a rate three percentage points higher.This means: So a house costing £100,000 would have a bill of £3,000. On a £200,000 property you would pay £7,500 (3% on the first £125,000 then 5% on the next £75,000), and if you were spending £350,000 on a second home you would pay £18,000 (3% on the first £125,000, 5% on the next £125,000 then 8% on the remaining £100,000). Someone buying a second home costing £1m would face a bill of £73,750 (3% on the first £125,000, 5% on the next £125,000, 8% on the next £675,000 and 13% on the last £75,000).If parents buy a property for their child and are named on the deeds while already owning a property, they will be charged the additional stamp duty. Helping your child out with a gift of a deposit will not be a problem – only part-owning the property.If you complete on your new home while still owning your old home you will have to pay the higher rates, however if you sell your old home within 36 months you can reclaim the extra tax.You will pay the extra rate of tax because you will now own two homes.If you are selling your main residence and buying a new place to live it won’t be counted as a second home and you will pay the normal, lower, rate of tax.</content>
<class_name>Stamp duty,Property,Tax,Buying to let,Buying property abroad,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:50:46+0100</date>
<title>Stamp duty and second homes: what will I pay?</title>
<content>A dedicated postmaster made a round trip of more than 600 miles to personally deliver a passport on time so a customer could catch a flight.David Shepherd of  drove 50 miles then took four trains after realising he had forgotten to put the documents in the post.The passport had to get to customer Hugh Monro in Rye, East Sussex, by 9am the following day so he could embark on a planned visit to Amsterdam, where he was to attend a charity board meeting.Shepherd, 26, who has been the postmaster in the village of Stratton, near Bude for 11 months, decided to undertake the epic trek to ensure Monro received his passport in time.After closing time at the post office, he drove 50 miles to Exeter and then took the 1am overnight sleeper train to Paddington, arriving in London at 5.30am.Shepherd then crossed London on the tube to catch a 6.40am train from London St Pancras to Ashford in Kent.A fourth train – the 7.41am from Ashford – was needed to get him to Rye, where he hand-delivered the passport to Monro’s sister, with whom Monro was staying before his flight.Shepherd then had just 15 minutes before he needed to catch the return train to begin his journey back to Cornwall. In all, the trip cost him more than £150.“It was a long journey but was all worth it to keep my customers happy,” he said. “People keep coming in and saying: ‘Can I have that hand-delivered please?’ But the feedback we’ve had for it is really, really positive.“I’m really glad I did it. It was my mistake in the first place that the passport didn’t go to the postman.“It was pretty tiring. I had worked from 7am that morning and then I caught the train at 1am the next morning and got no sleep. And when I finally arrived, I had to turn around and go back again within half an hour.“When I finally arrived, Mr Monro’s sister was speechless that I had travelled up that night. Since he returned from his trip he has bought me a nice bottle of champagne and he’s been nothing but grateful ever since.“It was a long two days and I was really running on adrenaline. I think it was about 8pm when I finally got back but I had to go back to work for a few hours after that.“Hopefully, it won’t happen again but I wouldn’t hesitate to do it all again.”</content>
<class_name>Cornwall,Post Office,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T20:10:04+0100</date>
<title>Special delivery – how postmaster trekked 300 miles to help customer</title>
<content>to try to tackle the British steel industry crisis, following . David Cameron says he is “not ruling anything out” – although he has suggested nationalisation is not the answer.One question keeps being asked. If we spent billions of pounds bailing out the banks, why can’t the state bail out the steel industry?In 2011,  . Amid all the numbers was the analysis that “the Royal Bank of Scotland received £45.80bn, Lloyds £20.54bn, Northern Rock a total of £22.99bn, Bradford and Bingley £8.55bn and a further £26.05bn went on ‘loans to support deposit’.”The details of the bailout are complex, though, and there’s an argument that this figure could legitimately be stated as both higher and lower.The National Audit Office reported that the peak level of support offered to the banks was as high as £955bn, at one point. As well as the cash to buy into these businesses, the government put £332.4bn in guarantees and indemnities on the table, to restore confidence in the system.However, the government has also subsequently sold and reprivatised some of the holdings, reclaiming some of the cash. Last year, for example, it sold 5.4% of RBS and now retains less than 11% of Lloyds. The Treasury has also received some fees and interest from the banks, in excess of £11bn.Significantly less than the billions spent on the banks.The much-quoted figure has been that the Port Talbot plant is losing £1m a day – a big bill for the state to suddenly pick up. Sources on Thursday claimed that a bailout could cost as much as £1.5bn a year.The company, which says it values its British steel assets as virtually worthless, claims it would need considerable investment in the UK business to keep it competitive.The state of the global steel market, where plants are only operating at two-thirds capacity and cheap Chinese steel exports are readily available, may render any bailout impractical, regardless of whether or not the money is available.One frequently mentioned objection to the state buying a stake in the steel industry is that the government would fall foul of EU regulations. as “any advantage granted by public authorities through state resources on a selective basis to any organisations that could potentially distort competition and trade in the European Union”.So why didn’t this apply to the banking sector?Well, there is a get-out clause. The UK government’s own guidance on state aid makes it explicit that “some state aid is beneficial to the economy and supports growth and other policy objectives ... The state aid rules allow for good aid, which is necessary to deliver growth and other important objectives.”The government would argue that preventing the collapse of large chunks of the UK financial services sector was a necessary example of state aid, to mitigate the huge potential impact on the wider economy.The same argument is tougher to make about steel, a smaller sector, despite the devastating impact that closing steelworks would have on local communities.This is not a zero-sum game for the UK government. It is going to have to cough up some cash.If it chose not to support the steel industry financially, the taxpayer would foot the bill for supporting the workers laid off if Tata fails to find a buyer. The Institute for Public Policy Research suggests that along with the 15,000 jobs lost directly at , a further 25,000 jobs could go in firms in Tata’s supply chain.Without examining the individual circumstances of each of the 40,000 employees potentially affected it is difficult to estimate the welfare impact.It’s difficult to obtain a precise number. Those under 25 are only entitled to a reduced rate of jobseeker’s allowance of up to £57.90, rather than the full amount of £73.10. And couples, assuming that among that 40,000 there might be some couples who currently work together, can only claim up to £114.85.Other benefits would be adjusted too – for example people with children who had been paying the higher tax rate would be able to start claiming child benefit again once unemployed. The amount of housing benefit they can claim to subsidise the rent they are being charged might also change. On the other hand, lower-paid workers in the industry might currently be qualifying for in-work tax credits, which the jobseekers allowance payments would replace.If the government does not directly intervene, it would presumably – as part of any package of measures – offer cash for retraining and regeneration of the areas affected by steel plant closures.Whatever the outcome of discussions, the government will have a bill to pay. It just won’t be anywhere near the money spent on the banks.</content>
<class_name>Steel industry,Tata,Corus,Manufacturing sector,Banking,Royal Bank of Scotland,Lloyds Banking Group,Northern Rock,Banking reform,Financial sector,Bradford & Bingley,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T12:37:35+0100</date>
<title>Bank bailout v Tata bailout – how the costs compare</title>
<content>The commuter towns of Slough, Luton and  are Britain’s latest property hotspots, with annual price growth running at up to 19%, according to new official data.The  from the Land Registry also reveal that the average cost of a home in England and Wales stood at £190,275 in February. This is 6.1% higher than a year earlier, but down slightly on the January figure of £191,812.Nevertheless, housing charity  pointed out that wages in England and Wales only rose 1.6% in the past year. It warned that for millions of ordinary families who were priced out of the market, “these sky-high house prices mean the dream of a place to call home is fast becoming nothing more than a fantasy”.The figures showed that annual price growth in  is running at 13.5%, more than double the national average, with the typical price of a property in the capital now £530,368.However, several towns and areas notched up stronger growth than that: Slough in Berkshire topped the table with a 19% annual increase, lifting the typical price-tag to around £236,000. In  in Bedfordshire, property values are up 17% on a year earlier, taking the average to £169,000, while in Reading, also in Berkshire, prices are up 14.6% in a year, with the typical price there now £270,000.The figures provide fresh evidence that buyers priced out of London are switching their attention to more affordable areas within commuting distance. Another area which has seen an influx of Londoners looking for cheaper property options is the Essex borough of Thurrock, which includes the towns of Grays, Tilbury and Purfleet. The rate of annual price growth in Thurrock in February stood at 17.2%, with the average price there said to be around £194,000.Commenting on the data, David Brown, chief executive of estate agent Marsh & Parsons, said: “An overall monthly dip in property prices in February disguises the fact that the majority of regions are experiencing striking growth. In the capital, annual growth has climbed to comfortably double the wider England and Wales average.” from the Office for National Statistics, also published on Wednesday, revealed that tenants in Great Britain paid 2.6% more for housing in February than they did a year previously.Demand for rented property has grown as would-be buyers have found themselves priced out of the housing market, and this has in turn driven up rents.The biggest increase in rents was seen in London, with tenants in the capital paying 3.8% more than a year previously, though this is down slightly on the 3.9% figure recorded a month earlier. In the east of England and the south-east, average rents were up 3% and 2.9% respectively.“Annual price increases have been stronger in London than the rest of England since November 2010,” said the ONS. It added that the lowest annual rental price increases were seen in north-east England (0.9%) and the north west (1%).</content>
<class_name>House prices,Property,London,Luton,Reading,Housing,Communities,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:21:10+0100</date>
<title>Property prices skyrocket in towns near London</title>
<content>Millions of savers were dealt a blow after National Savings &  cut the interest rates on many of its accounts. NS&I has also slashed the number of premium bond prizes, thereby reducing people’s chances of winning.The rate on the investment account, held by more than 1.7 million people, will fall from 0.75% to 0.45%, while the 415,000 holders of the Direct Isa will see their rate drop from 1.25% to 1%. The direct saver rate will fall to 0.8% from its current 1.1%, while income bonds will now pay 1%, down from 1.25%.Meanwhile, the premium bond prize fund rate - the proportion of the total amount invested paid out in prizes - is being cut from 1.35% to 1.25%. This reflects the fact that the total number of prizes will fall to an estimated 2m in June - the equivalent figure for this month is just over 2.3m.As part of the changes, NS&I has reduced the number of higher-value prizes and increased the number of smaller ones. For example, there will be just two £100,000 prizes in June, compared with five this month.The changes partly reflect the fact that NS&I is looking to raise less money in the next financial year than it did this year. It is also a response to rivals dropping their rates, making the government-owned institution’s returns look more appealing.Jane Platt, NS&I’s chief executive, said: “It is always a difficult decision to reduce rates, but downwards movements in interest rates across the cash savings market mean that our rates have risen in the competitor tables.”She added: “The majority of the new interest rates on offer are either at or above average market rates. We believe they present a fair offer to customers, who will also continue to benefit from our 100% HM Treasury guarantee.”Danny Cox, a chartered financial planner at investment firm Hargreaves Lansdown, described the announcement as a “serious blow for savers”, who liked the absolute security offered by NS&I, but now faced even lower returns on their cash.</content>
<class_name>Savings,Banks and building societies,Savings rates,Isas,Interest rates,Bonds,Investments,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T15:35:25+0100</date>
<title>NS&I cuts interest rates for millions of savers</title>
<content>A £2.8bn government scheme funded by energy bill payers which aims to keep the lights on in Britain has been condemned as wasteful, expensive and “unfit for purpose” in a damning report.The claims comes on the day that one of the UK’s biggest coal-fired power stations, Ferrybridge, formally closes, with several others threatening to follow.There was also a new warning from a leading academic and adviser to energy regulator Ofgem that Britain’s electricity supply is facing “crunch time” this coming winter.Under the Capacity Market scheme, more than £370m alone has been paid to coal plants that are simultaneously being hit by a higher carbon price floor, ensuring “consumers are hit by a double whammy, paying for two subsidies,” warns the IPPR.“The government rightly wants to secure the country’s power supply. But its primary mechanism for doing so is failing to meet any of the government’s own objectives. It is absurd that consumers are paying for subsidies to the most polluting forms of generation such as diesel and coal while in a separate policy also paying to discourage them,” said Byron Orme, IPPR research fellow and author of the report. Orme believes a revamped scheme should not support the most polluting plants such as diesel generators, provide proper support for demand reduction schemes and halt support for existing nuclear reactors. “The Capacity Market needs fundamental reform if the lights are to be kept on at reasonable cost to households and businesses.” The government has itself been changing the Capacity Market gradually in new efforts to incentivise energy companies to keep their electricity generation levels up amid the growing number of plant closures.It said it was doing enough to ensure the lights were kept on. “We are clear that providing a secure supply of affordable energy for our families and businesses is non-negotiable,” said a spokesperson for the Department of  and Climate Change.“The closure of Ferrybridge was announced last May, sometime before reforms to the Capacity Market were set out. These reforms will ensure that the Capacity Market remains fit for the purpose of securing our energy supply by bringing forward new power stations as older, less efficient, plants close.” National Grid, which has the job of balancing power demand and supply, said it was continuing to monitor the situation with regard to next winter. Power company SSE confirmed the closure of the Ferrybridge coal-fired power station in Yorkshire but said that its Fiddlers Ferry plant in Cheshire might apply for subsidies on offer for 2016-17.Last week the  ended production while the , operated by Engie of France, is scheduled to switch off this summer. Michael Grubb, professor of energy and climate change policy at University College London and an adviser to Ofgem, said he believed thedemand-supply margin was still very close“With the first backup under the capacity mechanism not in place until next year, this winter coming will be the crunch time for the UK’s electricity transition,” he said. “Yet despite the tight margins, extreme weather is still far more likely to cause any household disconnections than insufficient generating capacity.”Paul Massara, former chief executive of the major energy supplier RWE npower, said that the closure of coal-fired power stations might have drastically narrowed the gap between demand and supply, but that they needed to go nonetheless.“The phase-out of coal-fired power stations in the UK is a good thing, for a number of reasons.  hasn’t been paying its way for some time now, notably in terms of its impact on air pollution and the climate. The targets we face for keeping levels of global warming within ‘safe’ levels also mean that coal, as the most polluting of all fossil fuels, has to go as quickly as possible, not just here but across Europe,” he said.Doug Parr, chief scientist for Greenpeace UK, said the ministers needed a rethink. “The UK government has taken the right approach by announcing a coal phase-out, but they forgot about the other half of the job. What Britain badly needs are clear, robust policies to drive more investment in clean energy and power-saving technologies. “What we have instead is a random collection of pet projects, like the Hinkley nuclear reactor and fracking, that are going nowhere, with highly polluting diesel farms thrown in to plug the gap.”</content>
<class_name>Energy industry,Energy,Coal,Fossil fuels,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:01:36+0100</date>
<title>Government's plan for secure power generation 'unfit for purpose': report</title>
<content>Growing fears of a  has knocked confidence among UK consumers, which remains stuck at its lowest level in more than a year, according to a report.Market research firm GfK said its consumer sentiment indicator stayed at zero in March, unchanged from February its joint lowest level since December 2014.Consumers’ confidence in the UK economy over the next 12 months tumbled by 18 points to -12, from +6 in March 2015.Joe Staton, head of market dynamics at GfK, said the decline could be blamed on “Brexit jitters”. He said: “Despite good economic headlines about low inflation, interest rates and prices in the shops, concerns about Brexit and the ongoing eurozone crisis appear to be hitting home.” The chancellor,  from the world economy. Many economists predict UK economic growth will suffer, at least in the short term, if voters decide to leave the EU in the 23 June referendum., a credit crunch and higher interest rates for mortgage holders and businesses. The Bank’s financial policy committee judged that the closely fought campaign posed the “most significant near-term” domestic risk to financial stability.The GfK survey, carried out on behalf of the European commission, showed consumers were slightly more upbeat about the outlook for their finances over the next 12 months, with a reading of 9 for March, up from 7 a year ago. Even so, they were less willing to spend on big-ticket items than in February.GfK’s findings came as a separate study by Lloyds Banking Group showed UK business confidence bounced back from a two-year low. Optimism among businesses rose by 15 points to 43% for March, from a net balance of 28% in February. This was driven in part by an upbeat outlook from consumer services, and less concern about market volatility. The net balance of firms reporting an improvement in their economic prospects increased to a three-month high of nearly 40% in March, and a similar number expect to take on more staff over the next 12 months. </content>
<class_name>EU referendum,Consumer spending,Economics,European Union,Europe,Bank of England,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:47:08+0100</date>
<title>Brexit jitters dent UK consumer confidence, study claims</title>
<content>Plummeting coal use in 2015 led to a fall of 4% in the UK’s annual carbon dioxide emissions, according to  published on Thursday. Coal is now burning at its lowest level in at least 150 years.The closing of old polluting coal-power stations and the rapid rise in renewable energy meant coal consumption fell by 22% compared to 2014, the biggest drop ever seen outside of miners’ strikes, according to . Production of coal in the UK also fell to a new record low, dropping by 27% due to mines closing.The rapid decline in coal use is continuing in 2016, with four more stations closed in the last fortnight, including , Ferrybridge and Eggborough, leaving six operational. The government has pledged to  to help meet climate change targets.The future of the large new  in Somerset is also in serious doubt, leading to concerns about energy security.But experts said coal plant closures would not lead to the lights going out. “We have seen at least five years of “lights out” headlines, so far without so much as a flicker caused by insufficient capacity,” said Prof Michael Grubb, at University College London. “Despite tight margins,  than insufficient generating capacity.”“Closure of these coal plants is both expected and necessary,” said Jonathan Gaventa, director of thinktank E3G. “The UK has plenty of options to cover the loss of coal-fired power through energy efficiency, renewables, interconnection with other countries and smart demand. This combination can deliver low-cost electricity reliably and quickly.”Renewable electricity generation surged in 2015, rising by 29%, allowing it to claim a record 25% share of all electricity. Most of this came from wind power and bioenergy, the latter being boosted by the continued  - once the UK’s biggest coal plant - to burning wood pellets.Solar power increased by 50% in 2015 to make up 9% of all renewable electricity. The government has been repeatedly criticised for  and energy efficiency programmes.“If anything is to blame for tight margins, it’s previous governments’ history of incoherent energy policy,” said Paul Massara, former CEO of “big six” energy company RWE npower. “Investors need long-term clarity on policy, and they simply have not been getting it.”“Look outside the UK and it’s clear that the direction of travel in is only in one direction, towards primarily low-carbon, flexible, smart energy systems,” said Andrew Garrad, senior consultant at DNV GL energy. “It’s been accelerated by the Paris climate agreement, and Britain is by no means ahead of the pack in this transition.”The share of electricity generated by gas remained unchanged at 30% while nuclear’s share rose from 2% to 21%. The energy used by transport rose, which the government said was probably due to lower petrol prices.Oil production in the UK was 13% higher than in 2014 and gas production 8% higher, both bucking the trend of steady decline seen since the peaks seen in 1999 and 2000 respectively. The , according to a report in November.</content>
<class_name>Coal,Energy,Fossil fuels,Greenhouse gas emissions,Climate change,Energy industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:45:36+0100</date>
<title>Rapid decline of coal use leads to drop in UK emissions</title>
<content> has become the most complained-about mobile phone provider after the introduction of a new billing system sent customer grievances soaring.The telecoms regulator  said complaints made to Vodafone surged to 32 per 100,000 pay-monthly customers in the final three months of 2015. The figure was up from 20 in the previous quarter, and is now three times higher than rival phone providers.Ofcom said complaints received about Vodafone related to billing, pricing and charges, as well as complaints handling and fault, service or provision issues. It reflects the Guardian’s own complaints postbag, which has seen a big surge in complaints about Vodafone in recent months. Ofcom said Vodafone was the only provider to have more complaints than the industry average of 10 per 100,000 customers. Tesco Mobile had by far the fewest complaints according to the data. Vodafone’s problems stem from its decision to introduce a new billing system at the end of last year. Ofcom is separately investigating Vodafone over its complaints handling procedures, while conducting another inquiry into the supplier’s sales of pay-as-you-go mobile services. Overall, Ofcom said total complaints across the telecoms and paid-for TV sectors fell in the three months to the end of December 2015. The regulator said it receives just under 300 telecoms complaints a day from consumers who are unhappy with their service. TalkTalk received the most landline complaints, at 30 per 100,000 customers, while EE, Plusnet, Post Office and BT also continued to generate landline complaints significantly above the industry average. EE again attracted the most complaints for fixed-line broadband, while grievances about Plusnet, TalkTalk and BT remained higher than the rest of the industry. Sky and Virgin recorded the fewest phone/broadband complaints. Vodafone apologised to affected customers following the company’s “highly complex” switchover of customers on to its new billing system. “We would like to apologise to any customer who has had an issue with our service. We are working hard to improve our customers’ experience and more recent data is showing an improvement,” it said. The company said it had improved its customer call centre teams to help deal with complaints and resolve billing issues. Elsewhere, BT held on to its spot as the most complained-about pay-TV provider over the fourth quarter, although the numbers dropped to 15 per 100,000 from 25 over the previous three months. Low-cost rival TalkTalk also received above-average complaints about paid-for TV, at 14 per 100,000 customers. </content>
<class_name>Vodafone,Ofcom,Telecommunications industry,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T17:48:27+0100</date>
<title>Vodafone heads list of mobile provider complaints</title>
<content>The new 12-sided £1 coin has gone into production a year before it reaches people’s pockets.The coins have started rolling off the production line at a rate of more than 4,000 a minute after the UK chancellor, George Osborne, announced they would enter circulation in March 2017.When the coin is introduced, there will be a six-month crossover period with the current and new pound coins both in circulation.The current £1 coin is being replaced for the first time in more than 30 years because it is vulnerable to counterfeiters. In recent years, up to three pound coins in every 100 have been found to be fake. This equates to about £45m coins being a dud.The new 12-sided coin, which resembles the old threepenny bit, will be the world’s most secure coin in circulation, the government claimed.More than 2.2bn £1 coins have been struck since it replaced the £1 note in April 1983.The new, two-coloured coin was announced in the 2014 budget. It measures just over 2.3cm in diameter and has rounded corners and milled edges.Osborne said: “I am delighted that the Royal Mint are producing the most secure circulating coin anywhere in the world. With groundbreaking technology, developed in Wales, the new coin will help secure our economy and get rid of counterfeits.“In a year’s time, the new coin, which will incorporate emblems from all four of our home nations, will line millions of pockets and purses around the UK.”Adam Lawrence, Royal Mint chief executive, said modernising the coin was “helping to redefine the world of coinage for the future”.</content>
<class_name>Sterling,Currencies,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:16:33+0100</date>
<title>Royal Mint starts new £1 coin production</title>
<content>The number of City financiers who took home more than €1m (£800,000) per year jumped to nearly 3,000 in 2014, with one earning up to €25m.The European  Authority (EBA) said the UK, with the Europe’s biggest financial centre in London, had more than three times as many high-earning bankers as the rest of the EU combined. Critics of high pay said the soaring wages showed little has been learned from the financial crisis. showed that the number of high earners across the EU rose 21.6% to 3,865 in 2014, from 3,178 in 2013. The majority – 2,429 – worked in investment banking. It was the first year when the EU bonus cap was implemented and new EBA rules on banks reporting staff remuneration took effect. The overall increase was driven by a 40% leap in the number of high earners in the UK, to 2,926 from 2,086, which partly reflected exchange rate effects as most City bankers are paid in sterling. Stripping out currency effects, the increase would have been 16%, or 339, more high earners in the UK. The EBA put this down to banks making higher net profits.The soaring number of high earners drew criticism from the Trades Union Congress, which said the increase did not reflect the economic reality for most people.“These are staggering numbers – for parts of the banking sector, it’s like the credit crunch never happened,” said a spokesman.“It would be easier to understand if there was evidence that the activities of the banks were supporting stronger growth, stronger manufacturing, higher productivity and better wages across the board. “But instead the economy has seriously underperformed across all these areas.”Paul Marsland, deputy director of the High Pay Centre thinktank, said efforts to address risky behaviour in the financial world were having little effect.“It’s no surprise really to see London, as the main financial centre in , with the heaviest number of people covered by these regulations,” he said.“But it is a surprise to see the numbers increasing at the rate they are, given that the rules that have given us this information are aimed at jobs with an element of risk-taking. “The fact that these are predominantly investment banking jobs seems to suggest that the riskier nature of their work is alive and kicking. Given the uncertainty of the economic climate, it’s a surprise to see that expanding.”In Germany, the number of high-earning bankers fell to 242 from 397, mainly due to a decline at subsidiaries or branches of UK firms in Germany. In all other countries, the number remained broadly stable.The London-based regulator’s data showed 16 people at financial firms based in Britain took home more than €10m in 2014, with one earning €24m-€25m. Since the bonus cap was introduced in 2014, limiting bankers’ bonuses to 100% of salary, or 200% if shareholders approve, the UK and France have implemented waivers.  such as asset managers and brokers, the EBA found in December, and supports amending the EU directive to exclude small firms from the bonus cap across the trading bloc.The regulator said the introduction of the bonus cap had led EU banks to shift remuneration towards fixed salaries. As a result, the average ratio between variable and fixed pay for high earners more than halved to 127% in 2014 from 317% in 2013.This had little impact on banks’ costs and financial stability, the regulator found, contrary to the fears they voiced ahead of the change.The EBA’s Bernd Rummel said: “The banks said during the consultation of EBA guidelines that the bonus cap would be very negative for them in terms of cost flexibility and financial stability. “We analysed this and found that there was only a small increase in the fixed administrative cost. There was no big impact on the financial stability or cost flexibility.”</content>
<class_name>Banking,Financial sector,European banks,Europe,Executive pay and bonuses,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:12:49+0100</date>
<title>Number of City bankers earning above €1m rises to nearly 3,000</title>
<content>Is cycling in central  the preserve of young people in Lycra? Why do so many people think urban cycling is too risky? Despite a substantial increase in the number of people cycling on main roads (300% in the last 15 years and rising by 10% a year, according to Andrew Gilligan, cycling commissioner for London) many would-be cyclists are still too scared to cycle in the capital.So what’s the answer? This spring the government will roll out the  scheme, which should offer safer, faster cycle routes around the city. But is this enough? How do we create safe pathways for all road users, and encourage more people to get on their bikes?Discussing the issue at a were ,Olympiccyclist and British Cycling policy adviser, ,cycling commissioner for London,senior lecturer in transport at the University of Westminster and , Licensed Taxi Drivers Association general secretary. They were joined by Peter Walker, who writes the Guardian cycling blog, and cycling journalist Laura Laker, who chaired the event. Here are their suggestions:Boardman said that although cycling’s statistically very safe, it’s not perceived as such and one way to combat the problem is to create more space for cyclists: “This will be the most painful part as the space has to come from somewhere.” McNamara said taxi drivers were all for creating safer pathways. “As road users, we think segregated cycling is the way to go,” he said, adding that taxi drivers were in favour of about 90% of the cycle superhighway, although they were troubled by sections of the Embankment.Walker agreed, saying the key problem is infrastructure – particularly difficult issues such as blocking off rat runs that are taken over by speeding cars during rush hours.McNamara said segregation had to take into account the way people move about the city. “The problem with the cycle superhighway is that it applies 24 hours a day. The numbers of people cycling in the morning and evening rush hours are massive, but go down there at half 10 in the morning, half two in the afternoon, eight in the evening, and there’s nobody there,” he said. He advocated segregating certain lanes at certain times of the day. “That costs nothing – you just need a simple camera enforcement system and the rest of the day people can move around.” Not all the panel agreed – Aldred and Walker said the roads needed to be available all day to suit other cyclists, particularly those who are under-represented such as women and older people.One area the panel did agree on was the importance of introducing initiatives in the suburbs. “By starting in the centre and forcing the way out, we’ve encouraged this myth that the only people who cycle are wealthy white males who can afford to live in central London and cycle half a mile to work,” said McNamara. “We need to go into the suburbs, encouraging women, people going to schools, people going about where generally cycling is a lot safer anyway.”Aldred said her research proved people wanted to cycle away from cars – in segregated lanes, through green spaces or through quiet residential streets. This was even more important for parents taking children to school, who needed to avoid rat runs. “It’s often politically difficult to take through motor traffic out of those areas, but it will be transformational for cycling, particularly in outer London.”She pointed to Waltham Forest, where some rat runs have been transformed into quiet spaces where there are pocket parks, areas for people to walk. “That’s a really important selling point. If we do these things, we’ll create these much more pleasant local areas, and should also reduce injury rates for pedestrians. This is about creating better places for everyone.” So how do we create these spaces? Gilligan said people needed to engage with local councils. “The reason we’ve made progress on the superhighways is because they’re our roads and we can decide what happens on them, but on the quieter borough roads it’s much harder,” he said. “I’d like to see everyone who wants a safe cycle route in their neighbourhood turning up at their council surgeries saying ‘we want this’, because at the moment they’re hearing from people who don’t want it.”He also pointed to Waltham Forest, where there is strong support for cycling. “A big group of people are prepared to go to meetings and argue on social media, which is one of the reasons why the council is able to push through these schemes,” he said.Another problem raised was the lack of places to lock up bikes in central London. Gilligan said it was down to the councils. “We’re putting in 80,000 cycle parking spaces this year, but we can only put them where the councils are willing to allow us. There aren’t enough in the West End, and Westminster council has these big chunky lampposts that you can’t chain your bike around. We have some leverage with the councils but not that much.”Parked cars were also raised as a hazard, especially for young cyclists. “We should be looking at areas where rates of motor ownership have gone down, but where lots of streets are given over to parking,” she Aldrer. “We should consider removing car parking on one side, and then you have space for something else – cycle paths, planting, and making sure children aren’t going to be invisible on that side of the road.”The panel were unable to agree on the issue of a hierarchy of responsibility on the roads, or on driver liability, but all supported degrees of segregation, trialling inexpensive measures in the suburbs, and continued pressure on councils to encourage more people to get on their bikes in the capital.</content>
<class_name>Cycling,London,Transport policy,TfL,Transport,Road safety,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:00:06+0100</date>
<title>How can people be encouraged to cycle in London?</title>
<content>Is there a serious risk that Scotland’s tax revenues would be hit hard by people fleeing south to avoid the new top rates of tax advocated by Labour or the Scottish Greens? HM Revenue & Customs is not convinced that there is. With a  taking effect within hours, from Wednesday 6 April 2016, HMRC has confirmed it has put in place tight tests and processes, and has full data on all Scottish taxpayers to prevent residents dodging their liabilities. It told the Guardian this week:The issue is now central to the political battle over Holyrood’s enhanced tax powers, to set all Scotland’s income tax rates and bands on earnings from April 2017 (until then the SRIT will be identical to the UK rate). The Scottish Greens  on earnings over £150,000; Scottish Labour believes it should be 50%.Before the Greens upped the ante earlier this week, , the Scottish National party leader and first minister, denounced Labour’s 50% additional rate at first minister’s questions as too dangerous to introduce, claiming it would push the wealthiest Scottish taxpayers to leave.Her officials had warned that if just 6% or 1,000 of Scotland’s 18,000 additional rate taxpayers left to avoid that rate, Holyrood would lose £30m which could be otherwise spent on the NHS or other public services. That, Sturgeon said: The Scottish government refused to discuss the HMRC’s latest statement. Even though this concerns government policies and processes – and official documents issued at a first minister’s press conference, it claims it is barred from doing so by the “purdah” rules restricting government announcements during an election. Sturgeon’s officials passed the Guardian’s questions to the SNP. The debate about the risks of tax flight does matter: while there are fewer and less wealthy additional rate taxpayers in  than the UK as a whole, at 0.7% versus 1.1% and earning £310,000 on average against £370,000 in 2010/11, they still contribute nearly 14% of Scotland’s income tax, or some £1.5bn.But the evidence about the risks of flight are far from conclusive, and Sturgeon’s officials know this, as does the SNP.HMRC experts cast doubt on how serious this threat would be in evidence to Holyrood’s SNP-dominated  – a session attended by three senior Scottish government civil servants.In one highly illuminating aside at that session, the committee chairman, SNP MSP Kenny Gibson, said his committee had picked up first hand evidence on this from a visit to the Basque country – a largely autonomous region of Spain – evidence which contradicts Sturgeon’s recent position. Gibson said: And despite Sturgeon’s stance at first minister’s questions, her government’s official assessments of the risks are more nuanced and cautious on the risks of flight than her robust rhetoric suggests. In fact,  issued when Sturgeon unveiled her tax plans said that the threat of losing £30m a year (0.28% of Scottish income tax revenues) was the worst case of three scenarios - scenarios which did not factor in revenues potentially raised by changing other, lower tax bands.It states that if no tax payer left Scotland because of it, a 50% rate would raise £110m. And under the middle “low behaviour” scenario, defined as one at the “lower range of the elasticities” in people’s behaviour by the Institute for Fiscal Studies and HMRC, it would raise £50m extra.  The briefing said there is “considerable uncertainty” about how much extra tax might be raised, because of the “uncertain, potentially large” changes in taxpayer behaviour. Different rates north and south of the border “may” push the wealthiest to move their income, it noted cautiously.The key point about the debate in Scotland is that, unlike tax flight generally at UK level or globally, this relates only to salaries – it does not effect investment earnings, shareholding profits or other forms of income routinely part of a high earner’s wealth. And that is linked directly to where you live.So to avoid paying a 50% or 60% SRIT, a taxpayer would need to move home, lock stock and barrel - and move their spouse and children, changing schools and facing potentially higher English housing costs and English university fees in the process. Which is why HMRC’s latest statement matters. In advance of October’s , the HMRC stated it was creating a special Scottish taxpayers’ list, cross-referenced with the Department of Work and Pensions, and other sources, including the voters register. stated: Two HMRC experts, Edward Troup and Sarah Walker, said they were taking deliberate steps to stop tax flight happening – in conjunction with Scottish government officials and the new agency Revenue Scotland.Troup acknowledged that HMRC experience with the wider tax system was that differential rates clearly influenced the wealthiest; it would influence those able to switch between homes in say London and Edinburgh. Even so, he noted earlier: Walker then told the committee the wealthiest taxpayers actually behaved differently, and were policed differently by HMRC: it has a “high net worth unit” to oversee very wealthy individuals. And these people tended to pay income tax through self-assessment, not PAYE, a process carrying clear risks of giving false information. She said that unit had been investigating the impact of SRIT on its taxpayers and how to control evasion: Troup added: The Scottish government’s briefing paper identified a further complication: the risk of tax flight was greater for those working for non-Scottish companies, because executives in London-based firms could more easily change primary residence. That would be far harder for Scottish-company executives. This is an important and relevant point. A far larger proportion of Scotland’s economy measured by GDP is owned by companies based outside Scotland than is the case in the wider UK economy – a particular issue for major Scottish industries associated with high earners, the finance sector and oil and gas. A Guardian investigation in 2014 found that  was controlled by non-Scottish companies, compared to 36% of the UK’s. The Scottish figure fluctuates each year, but tellingly, the data excludes the country’s valuable finance sector because so much of its ownership and HQ structure is opaque, and many of the world’s largest banks don’t have Scottish registered offices. That implies the foreign GDP figure is larger than estimated.The Scottish government briefing also points out that a 50% rate could also strongly influence the choices made by new high value recruits considering Scottish jobs. (Equally, it does not point out that the SNP’s decision to increase taxes on the most expensive homes, both through sales taxes and council tax, will likely add to that effect.)In its conclusion, the briefing says that because the risk of tax flight increases the more someone earns, that amplifies the financial impact on revenues of their decision to stay or move: “A single very high income earner will account for the same tax receipts as a larger number of less high income earners.”Stung by the backlash to her refusal to raise higher rates, Sturgeon has since  within a couple of years; the Scottish government’s council of finance advisers will study the risks of tax flight she has said. Perhaps the next Holyrood finance committee will now want to revisit this too, and subject this to far greater scrutiny now the tax powers are in place.</content>
<class_name>Scotland,Scottish politics,Nicola Sturgeon,Economic policy,Tax and spending,Scottish National party (SNP),</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:01:30+0100</date>
<title>Scottish residents will be blocked from dodging higher taxes, HMRC says</title>
<content>A mild winter has boosted the number of small birds visiting UK gardens, with the long-tailed tit returning to the top 10 most commonly seen species for the first time in seven years, according to results from the world’s largest garden wildlife survey.Recorded sightings of the tiny, sociable tit rose by 44% on 2015 figures and the species was seen in more than a quarter of participants’ gardens. Other small garden bird species that are thought to have benefitted from the warmer weather include the great tit and coal tit.About 519,000 people across the UK counted 8.2 million birds for the RSPB’s 37th . The annual survey asks members of the public to spend an hour counting the birds in their gardens and local parks during the last weekend of January, to help compile a snapshot of the UK’s bird populations.The house sparrow remains the most commonly seen garden bird, with an average of 4.2 birds per garden and was seen in 61% of gardens, followed by the starling (2.9 birds, 39% of gardens) and blue tit (2.8, 79%).However, some species continue to decline in the long-term, with 58% less house sparrows and 80% less starlings seen in 2016 than in 1979 when the count began. Chaffinches (-46%), greenfinches (-44%) and blackbirds (-38%) have also seen significant reductions. But there have also been increases over the same period for woodpigeon (1,052%), collared dove (305%) and coal tits (273%).RSPB conservationists said an increase in sightings of the long-tailed tit, alongside other smaller garden birds such as the coal tit (up 25% since last year) and great tit (up 15%), could be attributed to the mild weather in the . The winter of 2015-16 is on track to become the warmest ever recorded in England and Wales, and the third warmest on record for the UK as a whole, according to  released earlier this month. The UK mean temperature from 1 December to 24 February was 5.6C – well above the long-term average of 3.7C. Small birds such as the long-tailed tit, which weighs little more than a 50p coin, are more likely to be killed off during cold weather - partly because of their size but also because as the insects they rely on for food are hard to find in frost and snow. From the late 1970s to the mid-1980s, a series of bitter winters caused the population to plummet, but a long run of mild winters brought the species into the top 10 garden birds . Milder conditions are likely to have contributed to a higher survival rate this year, according to  conservation scientist, Dr Daniel Hayhow: “The increase in long-tailed tit sightings, along with other smaller garden birds, just goes to show that in the absence of very cold weather these species can survive the winter months in much great numbers.”Longer term, the increase may also be explained by the way long-tailed tits and other smaller birds have adapted to feeding on seeds and peanuts at bird tables or from hanging feeders. Since 2006 the average number of long-tailed tits seen in UK gardens has increased by 52%, while great tit numbers have gone up by 13% and coal tit by 9%.In , the  showed that cold, wet weather in the spring of 2015 resulted in a particularly poor breeding season for blackbirds, great tits and blue tits, with numbers all well below average during the second half of 2015. Clare Simm, from the BTO, said: “While numbers of some of our common garden birds were low, the good news is that we had a mild winter and overwinter survival should have been high, boosting numbers at the start of 2016.”</content>
<class_name>RSPB Big Garden Birdwatch,Weather,Animals,Birdwatching,Birds,Conservation,Gardens,RSPB,Wildlife,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T06:01:05+0100</date>
<title>Mild UK winter boosts sightings of smaller garden birds</title>
<content>Up to 40,000 jobs are at risk after  Steel revealed that it plans to pull out of the UK.This has left the Port Talbot plant, the UK’s biggest steelworks, and Tata’s other sites facing a race against time to secure their survival. Those sites employ a total of 15,000 people, and a further 25,000 livelihoods are under threat in the supply chain if the business collapses.  over the crisis and called for the company to be nationalised., these are the potential options for the government and the future of Tata Steel.The Labour leader says that because steel is a strategic asset, Tata’s UK business should be nationalised in order to safeguard its future – just as it was in its previous incarnation as British Steel. However, David Cameron and Sajid Javid, the business secretary, have played down the prospect of nationalising Port Talbot or the entire Tata UK business. Government officials have warned that taking over the company could carry a price tag of £1.5bn a year. Cameron said: “We are not ruling anything out. I don’t believe nationalisation is the right answer, what we want to do is secure a long-term future for Port Talbot and for other steel plants in the UK.” In addition to the government’s concerns, nationalisation could .The three major problems that have led to Tata looking to pull out of the UK are energy costs, , and its pension burden. Officially, Tata has said it is considering all its options, rather than simply selling the UK business, so this option is in theory still on the table. If the trade unions accept drastic cuts to their pensions and the government slaps higher tariffs on the importing of Chinese steel then this could clear the path for Tata to activate the turnaround plan for Port Talbot and its UK business. However, a source close to the company said the chances of enough being done to persuade Tata to keep its UK steel operations are “very slim”.Two Lanarkshire steel mills were  after Tata sold them to metals group Liberty House in a deal that was brokered by the Scottish government. The transaction saw the Scottish government take temporary ownership of the Clydebridge and Dalzell plants before passing them on to Liberty. The UK and Welsh governments could look for a similar deal on Port Talbot and the rest of Tata’s UK business, but it will be far more complex because the size of the transaction would be much larger. Other options for the government would be to offer loans, loan guarantees or new procurement contracts to a buyer. European state-aid rules mean any loans or loan guarantees would have to be on terms similar to those on offer in the commercial world. However, Tata could also offer financial support. In fact, it might have to. Pensions experts believe the Pensions Regulator could push Tata to inject more than £2bn into the British Steel Pension Scheme, which has liabilities of almost £15bn and 130,000 members, making it one of the biggest pension schemes in the UK.The most likely option. Tata has more than a dozen sites in the UK, ranging from quarries in Cumbria to the blast furnace in Port Talbot. Finding a buyer for the whole lot is unlikely. Indeed, Tata sources say it has been trying for the last 18 months to find a buyer but nobody was interested. Liberty, the buyer of Tata’s Scottish assets, has  that recycle steel or convert it for specific uses. But there is a major problem with this option – the part of Tata Steel that is losing the most money and is therefore likely to be the most difficult part to sell is Port Talbot, the site that the government is desperate to save. Port Talbot and its blast furnaces actually produce raw steel from iron ore and coal, but this process is expensive and the most exposed to the impact of rising energy costs and China dumping steel in Europe. Buyers are likely to be thin on the ground. As a result, this option would require the government to either persuade Tata to provide the time to secure deals, temporarily nationalise the parts that take the longest to sell, or simply let parts of the business close.The doomsday scenario, which would cost 40,000 jobs according to the IPPR thinktank. Tata Steel UK would fall into administration, with vulture funds and other businesses then buying the assets that take their fancy, with no guarantee they would be used to produce steel. Port Talbot could end up being bought by a property developer who wants to build houses and shops, which is . The pension scheme would have to enter the Pension Protection Fund. Britain would lose its biggest steelmaker and be left with a collection of smaller manufacturers across the country.</content>
<class_name>Steel industry,Tata,Wales,Manufacturing sector,India,David Cameron,Sajid Javid,Corus,Jeremy Corbyn,Trade unions,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:58:10+0100</date>
<title>What are government's options over Tata Steel and Port Talbot?</title>
<content>An increasingly popular fitness trend that involves stimulating muscles throughout the body using an electric current could cause damage and should be regulated, doctors have warned. involves the individual wearing a padded suit with electrodes that send impulses to the body to make muscles contract.Gyms, which offer the service under the supervision of a trainer, claim benefits include fat loss, and increased fitness and muscle strength in about a third of the time as a conventional workout., Dr Nicola Maffiuletti from the human performance lab at the Schulthess clinic in Zurich, Switzerland, and colleagues raised concern about the trend, which they said is based on “limited scientific evidence”.The doctors said they have diagnosed three people directly who had ES and then suffered rhabdomyolysis – muscle breakdown – and heard about dozens more. Rhabdomyolysis leads to the release into the bloodstream of a protein called myoglobin, which can damage kidney cells., warning that “uncontrolled, unregulated use may cause medical damage and endanger health”, and the letter’s authors want others to follow suit.Maffiuletti said: “The danger is if you apply the current to the legs, the arms, the trunk, at the same time that is a lot of current. They are unable to quantify the dose, it’s not like when you lift three or five kilos [in the gym].“If you applied it to me, then you, then my wife, then my child, the reaction of the skin and the tissue between the muscles is different so it’s a bad idea to think you can give standard dosage of currents to different people.“It’s based on the perception of the person [receiving it] which is not reliable. It’s like taking a pill without knowing the dosage.”The letter said “the true number of people injured by this form of exercise may be much higher but they are undiagnosed”.Several gyms have begun offering ES in London and more are expected to follow across the country. But the UK is far behind the likes of Spain, where, according to Maffiuletti, 500 have begun providing the service in Madrid in the last five years.Electric muscle stimulation, not for the whole body, was originally used by people who had received surgery, were immobilised or had been into space, said Maffiuletti.Athletes said to have used it for training during rehabilitation include  and Frank Lampard. But more recently, it has been adopted as an alternative form of exercise by healthy people.Maffiuletti said that in low doses, and used for some muscles – but not the whole body – the treatment could be complementary to conventional exercise for people who train three or more times a week. He cautioned that at the clinic people are told to stay still during ES to avoid the risk of muscle damage, whereas many gyms recommend moving during the process. The letter said: “Regulatory authorities, clinicians, and users need a greater understanding and awareness of the risk of ES-induced rhabdomyolysis, heightened ability to recognise this condition, and more diligent strategies to prevent this potentially harmful effect.”None of the manufacturers or gyms the Guardian contacted responded to requests for comment.</content>
<class_name>Health,Health & wellbeing,Fitness,Switzerland,Europe,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T23:30:36+0100</date>
<title>'Damaging' electrical fitness workouts should be regulated, say doctors</title>
<content>he crisis facing the British steel industry is neither new nor sudden. On the contrary, it has been developing in plain sight for months and even years, if not for decades. In that sense, this week’s decision by Tata Steel to pull out of all its UK operations is simply the latest in a long series of blows that have  from the world leader to the fifth largest producer within the European Union.Tata’s decision is nevertheless a body blow to steel in the UK, with wide industrial and political implications. The threat to 4,000 jobs at the UK’s largest steelworks at Port Talbot, a community which is synonymous with the steel industry today in the way Jarrow was with the shipyards a century ago, is existential. But the closure of Tata’s plants, if it goes ahead, could threaten  nationwide and help to make a mockery of the “active and sustained industrial strategy” which  advocated as recently as last November.It would be foolish to pretend that there would be no problem facing steelmaking in Britain that determined state intervention could not solve. Global market power in steel production has shifted decisively to , while decades of underinvestment and a long-term decline in UK steel’s international competitiveness cannot simply be dismissed as unimportant, least of all at a time when public money remains tight. Tata, after all, is a company with a record of trying to take the long view. It invested in a new blast furnace at Port Talbot. But steel’s cost base, especially the prices it had to pay for energy, left it vulnerable to the glut that has followed the slowdown of the Chinese economy. China’s readiness to unload steel on global markets at marginal cost knocked the floor out of the industry elsewhere, including in the UK.Yet government should not be let off the hook. It has economic and social responsibilities. There are things it could and should do to defend UK steel – and things earlier governments should have done too.  may have told the industry minister Anna Soubry to do everything she could to keep steel alive. But the industry secretary, Sajid Javid, who rightly cut short a visit to Australia yesterday, is a laissez-faire Tory who has not shown much interest. After the US imposed anti-dumping tariffs on Chinese steel, the EU could have followed suit, but the UK appears not to have voted for them.Last year, after plants in Redcar and elsewhere faced closure, the Commons business select committee produced a blueprint for greater government engagement in defending UK steel. This included compensation for high energy costs, reduction of business rates, a strategy to support UK procurement by ensuring that factors other than price were involved, delaying the implementation of directives on emissions and taking a leading role in adopting EU anti-dumping measures.All of these made sense, especially in combination. Most of them still do. Steel unquestionably has a future of the sort that coal, for example, does not. It is ludicrous, therefore, that new government-backed infrastructure projects in rail, nuclear and renewables should not be supported to buy UK steel if the price is right and other conditions are satisfied. But it is tragic to be trying to make these choices so late in the day, under the threat of Tata’s sell-off, when they could have been made when the problems were already apparent months ago.We are where we are, however. Yet government can still do important things to help stabilise the situation in Port Talbot. It needs to work with Tata to win more time to make the serious long-term plans that should have been in place beforehand and which, if they had been, might have produced a different decision this week. It seems unlikely that  will make a quick sale, or be able to find a buyer, in current market conditions. But government should be ready, with short-term loans, taking a golden share or even considering temporary public ownership of some form, if that is required.In the end, Tata’s decision is a summons to a public seriousness that has been missing in government’s handling of steel’s troubles. There is a partisan imperative too – action for Port Talbot can help nip Ukip’s appeal in the Welsh elections in the bud. If we think the steel industry is important enough – which it is – and if industrial strategy is more than a slogan – and it ought to be – government must intervene to calm the uncertainties in the public interest. This is not a time for dogma. It is a time for a practical rescue plan and an overdue long-term commitment.</content>
<class_name>Steel industry,Tata,India,Corus,Wales,China,Asia Pacific,David Cameron,George Osborne,Sajid Javid,Unemployment,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:46:50+0100</date>
<title>The Guardian view on Tata Steel’s pull-out: a national summons to get serious</title>
<content>Nearly half of the $12bn in funds pledged at a conference in London to help Syrian refugees in the Middle East have yet to be allocated, the UN refugees chief has said.Filippo Grandi said he was very concerned by the slow pace, and that it was crucial to honour the pledges made at , which was hosted by David Cameron.Grandi was speaking at a UN conference on resettling Syrian refugees on Wednesday, at which the UN secretary general, , called for an exponential increase in global solidarity and an end to the demonisation of refugees.Referring to the London conference in February, the UN high commissioner for refugees warned: “More than half the promised funds have not yet been allocated. Rapid disbursement and early allocation are essential to allow humanitarian organisations to scale up operations in Syria and the region, and to stabilise displaced populations.” Sources in the UNHCR refugee agency said donors pledged $6bn for this year’s humanitarian and development programmes in Syria and neighbouring countries for refugees and the communities hosting them. But so far only about 8% of those pledges have been disbursed. In addition, donors are still yet to allocate some of the funds announced for individual agencies.Cameron had promised he would chase countries to ensure that pledges made were delivered, and Grandi’s warning will likely disturb Downing Street.The money was expected to help the 4.7 million refugees in the region by, for instance, increasing their educational and employment opportunities.Grandi appealed to countries collectively to agree to resettle 480,000 refugees over the next three years, as a way of providing alternatives to smuggling networks. He said the 480,000 planned resettlements worldwide represented only 10 % of the 4.8 million refugees sheltering in countries surrounding Syria, such as Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. There was scope for greater resettlement, , but many EU countries had turned their backs on refugees, he said, adding: “If Europe were to welcome the same percentage of refugees as Lebanon in comparison to its population, it would have to take in 100 million refugees.”So far 179,000 places have been pledged worldwide to the UN, but the EU commissioner for migration, Dmitris Avramopolous, said he had recommended member states take 54,000 additional Syrian refugees currently in Turkey. The UK is taking 20,000 refugees from camps over five years, although the Lords has passed an amendment to the immigration bill directing the government to take a further 3,000 . Tim Farron, the Liberal Democrat leader, has written to Cameron urging him not to overturn the amendment in the Commons.The UNHCR said so far only 12 % of the refugees in need of resettlement have been resettled, and demand vastly outstripped supply.Grandi also attacked “unscrupulous irresponsible politicians” that he suggested had manipulated public opinion, shifting the focus away from welcoming refugees to the . He said: “As a result 50,000 refugees are now left stranded in Greece living in dire conditions. We cannot respond to refugee crises by closing doors and building fences.” Grandi said countries had to offer resettlement for refugees, but also look at other safe avenues to help such as offering family resettlement, private sector labour mobility schemes, student visas, scholarships and visas for medical reasons. Few specific pledges to take additional refugees were made at the conference. He praised Canada, saying, with the help of the UNHCR, that the country had within four months screened, selected and prepared 25,0000 Syrian refugees – showing the world how programmes can be implemented quickly so long as the political will and resources are provided.But he stressed these avenues should not be seen as a means of a country absolving itself of its international legal commitment to asylum seekers.The conference on Wednesday also heard one of the main routes to Europe from Turkey via the Greek islands was starting to close. The Turkish deputy foreign affairs minister, Ali Naci Koru, described the  as a gamechanger, saying the number travelling to the Greek islands was declining rapidly and such journeys would soon end.The numbers had fallen to three digits daily in March. Turkey and the EU struck a deal on 18 March in which “irregular migrants” would be returned to Turkey, and for each forced return, a regular migrant will be taken by EU countries. At the same time Turkey, in return for extra EU cash, said it would do more to take on the smuggler networks.Koru said the number of irregular crossings had fallen from 6,800 daily in October, 2,100 in January and 1,900 in February to 900 in March. “Since our deal has become operational on 20 March there has been a dramatic fall. For the first time daily arrivals reached three digits and on average 400 migrants [a day] reached the Greek islands in the past 10 days,” he said. However, figures released by the Greek government on Wednesday showed 766 people reached the islands of Lesbos, Samos, Chios and Kos in the 24 hours until Wednesday morning, suggesting numbers are rising again as weather conditions improve.Lebanon’s social affairs minister, Rachid Derbas, said he hoped the developing peace process might allow for the establishment of safe zones for refugees within an internationally protected Syria.He warned his own country was on fragile ground: “If Lebanon itself fails and is crushed by this burden it might itself be a source of concern for the UNHCR and become a site for terrorism.” He added: “Terrorism needs no port of entry or a passport to be presented to border guards. It is like the air and can be pushed like a diabolic wind, striking wherever it pleases.”Derbas said those concerned by the numbers heading to Europe should recall that a single Lebanese village normally housing 30,000 people has taken 80,000 refugees. Lebanon, a country with a population of 4 million, had taken 2 million refugees, he said.The Canadian immigration minister, John McCallum, told the conference how  had come to see the welcoming of 26,000 refugees as a national project and had learned to be clear about the refugees’ plight, holding weekly press conferences to win over public opinion. He said his biggest challenge was to find enough refugees to satisfy the Canadian families that . As of 20 March, 26,202 Syrian refugees have arrived in Canada since Trudeau’s Liberals took power in November. The Liberals have promised that by the end of this year, 25,000 government-assisted Syrian refugees in total will have been resettled to Canada and they have about 10,000 more to go.</content>
<class_name>Refugees,United Nations,David Cameron,Migration,Immigration and asylum,Ban Ki-moon,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T13:04:11+0100</date>
<title>Half of $12bn refugee fund pledged at London meeting not disbursed</title>
<content>The murder of a young woman in an apparent cannibal attack by a recently released prisoner was likely to have been triggered by a severe reaction to illegal drugs, a health watchdog has found.But an investigation into the murder of , after he lured her back to his room in a hostel in south Wales, concluded that despite his history of drug misuse and psychotic episodes the attack could not have been predicted or prevented by health services.Williams, who had been released from prison weeks before the attack at the Sirhowy Arms in the village of Argoed, near Blackwood, died after a police officer shot him with a Taser.The review by Healthcare Inspectorate , published on Wednesday, did not identify “any significant root causes or factors that led to the unfortunate and tragic event”.But it raised concern that Caerphilly council failed to share information with the Sirhowy Arms about the risks the homeless and vulnerable people it placed there might pose, including their prior offending. Matthews was a prolific offender with 26 convictions for 78 offences, of which 41 resulted in juvenile custody and 14 led to jail terms in adult prisons. He had also been a prolific user of drugs, including cannabis and amphetamines, since adolescence. Although the report recommended some improvements in the support and monitoring of former prisoners with mental health and drug issues, the inspectors said they did not believe those issues contributed to Yemm’s death.The review noted that Matthews was likely to require long-term psychiatric care due to his “continuing drug misuse, possible personality disorder and chaotic lifestyle”. His habit of bingeing on drugs was also likely to result in further psychotic episodes.Healthcare and support staff who came into contact with him in the days and weeks before he murdered Yemm noted that he was “low in mood [and] pessimistic about his future” but did not exhibit signs of mental illness, including psychotic symptoms. The report states: “The change in [Matthews’] behaviour at the Sirhowy Arms hotel is likely to have been a result of his taking illicit and/or psychoactive substances and his severe reaction to this.“It is difficult to see how the incident … could have been either predicted or prevented by health services.”The report also noted that Matthews was not interested or willing to engage with support offered to him by care services. The chief executive of the healthcare inspectorate, Kate Chamberlain, said: “Mr Williams was reluctant to engage with the support available to him and this had tragic consequences. However, our review has concluded that it would have been difficult for health services to have predicted or prevented what happened.”Williams and Yemm, who worked for the clothes shop Next, are believed to have met on a night out in Blackwood. Friends said he invited her back to the hostel – used by Caerphilly council to place single, homeless men – promising to get her a taxi home.After hostel staff heard a woman’s cries, owner Mandy Miles burst into the room. She said Williams was covered in blood and had black eyes.Miles said: “I can still see the amount of blood and the stillness of her, there were no signs of life at that point. I said to Matthew: ‘Do you know what you’re doing to that girl?’ He said: ‘That’s no girl.’”Yemm died of “sharp force trauma” to her face and neck, a coroner ruled in 2014.The circumstances around Williams’ death are being investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. A coroner’s inquest is examining the circumstances around his death and that of his victim.</content>
<class_name>Wales,Crime,Drugs,Mental health,Health,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T14:00:10+0100</date>
<title>'Cannibal' murder triggered by illegal drugs, says health watchdog</title>
<content>The soaring cost of funerals, coupled with an erosion in the value of state funeral grants, is pushing poorer families into debt and distress, a report by MPs has concluded.The all-party  called on the government to launch an inquiry into the funeral industry to tackle the causes of funeral cost inflation and address .It said the declining value of state help with funeral costs for low income families – frozen at £700 for the past 13 years – no longer covered the cost of a no-frills funeral, which could be at least £1,200.Grieving families often had to borrow cash from payday lenders to meet the shortfall, said the MPs. In one case, a family were denied their relative’s ashes because they could not meet the final payment.The committee said it had been told of a case where a mother was reportedly forced to freeze her son’s body for months while she saved enough to pay for a funeral.It said the reported rise in so-called “” – where local authorities are obliged to arrange a burial or cremation if no relative is able to pay for it – may be a consequence of the declining value of social fund funeral grants.A  last year found that the number of Public Health Act funerals had increased by 11% over the past four years, at an average cost of £1,720 each. The average cost of a funeral in the UK is £3,702, the committee said. MP, chair of the work and pensions select committee, urged ministers to ensure that social security funeral grants covered the real costs of burial or cremation.He said: “Funeral payments for those who can prove they are entitled – and that is a very uncertain and onerous process – now fall far short of covering even a basic funeral. “We heard clear evidence of the distressing circumstances and debt this is leading people into, at a time when they are grieving and vulnerable. We do not want a return to the spectre of miserable ‘pauper’s funerals’.” The committee said annual funeral cost inflation had risen faster than overall inflation since 1980, while a postcode lottery in funeral costs existed across the UK. It said the market in funeral services offered a “lack of protection” for vulnerable customers, and urged ministers to review the industry.The report called on the government to change “outdated” guidance which prevented unmarried parents from receiving bereavement benefit payments when their partner died.It follows a  which found that the restriction of bereavement payment to an unmarried mother of four who had cohabited with her partner was a breach of her human rights.The Department for Work and Pensions said social fund funeral payments covered the full necessary costs of a burial or cremation and up to £700 for further expenses. The average award in 2014-15 was £1,375.It said this was a fair amount that ensured people got the help they needed with their funeral costs while keeping the system sustainable and fair to the taxpayer.</content>
<class_name>Poverty,Death and dying,Frank Field,Social exclusion,Benefits,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T20:38:46+0100</date>
<title>Grieving low-income families pushed into funeral poverty, say MPs</title>
<content>Is it too simplistic a view to suggest using the fines imposed for missed targets to fund additional staff, thereby reducing the risk of missing targets in the first place (, 29 March)? A couple of years ago we were in Bowness on Windermere when a foreign couple and their child stopped to ask if we knew where the nearest McDonald’s was. After thinking about it, we realised what we’d never noticed before. There is no McDonald’s in the Lake District National Park, or KFC, or Starbucks – in fact “virtually no evidence of American culture” ( 23 March). Is it not time we did something about this pocket of communist subversion? Jonathan Watts (, 26 March) fails to mention the Manic Street Preachers’ truly ground-breaking concert in 2001. The omission is surprising, to say the least; the band was the first western rock group to play in Cuba. Incidentally, “biggest” or even “best” is not the same as “first”. Peter Bradshaw (, 19 March) is exactly right on the subtexts in Brief Encounter. When I was interviewed on Today on the subject, John Humphrys asked me for a modern equivalent of Lean’s film. My reply – Brokeback Mountain – met with a harrumph that was a wonder to hear. Peter Fellows asks, apropos BSE, whether the Tories are capable of learning from Thatcher’s mistakes (, 30 March). Any mistakes in that era were made by Heath, Heseltine and Howe. Eighty-seven, and I can still remember as an 11-year-old boy the shock and devastation at learning that Richmal Crompton was a woman (, 29 March).</content>
<class_name>NHS,Health,Margaret Thatcher,Cuba,Americas,McDonald's,Food & drink industry,Manic Street Preachers,The Rolling Stones,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:13:07+0100</date>
<title>On the right tracks about Brokeback Mountain and Brief Encounter</title>
<content>The fact that  known to the authorities were able to hit Brussels precisely at a time when the city was saturated with police and intelligence services hunting terrorists has led to soul-searching in .There could be no denying mistakes had been made when  over failings in the tracking of the Bakraoui brothers, who blew themselves up on Tuesday at the airport and metro. The prime minister, Charles Michel, refused to allow the key ministers to stand down. Nevertheless, there was a damning revelation that one of the suicide bombers, Ibrahim el-Bakraoui, who Belgian authorities initially said was known only for criminality, had in fact been flagged by Turkey as a “foreign terrorist fighter” last year and deported to the Netherlands.Experts in the intelligence community warned that outright “Belgium bashing” from abroad was not going to help matters. , which is itself facing criticism at home over failings in preventing terrorist attacks, had to calm a potential diplomatic spat after its finance minister, Michel Sapin, accused Belgian officials of a “lack of will” and “maybe also a kind of naivety” in failing to handle the spread of radical Islam.The European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, jumped to Belgium’s defence, dismissing accusations that it was a “failed state”. The task of unpicking exactly what type of gap in intelligence that the  were able to slip through will take time, but it holds the key to preventing further Islamic State attacks.There is a long list of potential failings to consider. The first is how Ibrahim el-Bakraoui, who had skipped parole after serving less than half of a nine-year sentence for armed robbery, was able to leave for  and then be deported from Turkey as a “foreign terrorist fighter” without his domestic authorities noticing he was a militant.At the time of the , he and his brother were actively being hunted by police following a raid on a terrorist hideout in Brussels connected to November’s Paris attacks. It is not certain whether the Bakraoui brothers were the two men known to have fled from a flat across rooftops, eluding police snipers.Only four days before the Brussels attacks, Europe’s most wanted man, , the prime suspect in the Paris attacks that killed 130 people, had been cornered in Brussels. Police knew other dangerous suspects remained on the run, yet the Brussels bombers, , escaped detection.Najim Laachraoui, who is believed to have been the second Brussels airport suicide bomber, had been wanted by police since December over the , though under a false identity that was only unmasked last week.Laachraoui, who is thought to have been the  attacks’ bomb-maker, went to Syria in September 2013 in one of the first waves of jihadis to leave Belgium for the country. In February, a Belgian court convicted him in absentia for his involvement with Isis.“If you put all things in a row, you can ask yourself major questions,” said the Belgian interior minister, Jan Jambon.“When an attack happens, it by definition means there has been a failure,” Thomas Renard, a terrorism expert at the , a Brussels-based thinktank, told the Guardian. It is unlikely that Belgium underestimated the overall threat from terrorism and jihadis returning from fighting abroad. For several years, it has been on the frontline of terrorist cells in northern  and was well aware of the danger.Per capita, Belgium is Isis’s most fertile recruiting ground in Europe. After November’s attacks in Paris, Belgian authorities shut down Brussels for almost a week, closing schools, offices and cultural centres, cancelling sporting events and putting the army on the streets as there were fears an attack was imminent. But questions will be asked about whether Belgian analysis of specific threats was correct and whether it was watching the right people. “It will be a long time before we know exactly what happened,” Renard said. “There is a question about whether they didn’t take the full measure of attacks being prepared in Belgium, or whether the role of certain individuals was missed. “Or perhaps they focused on individuals considered most dangerous and missed the bigger picture of other figures involved. They could have underestimated the size and scope of the cell.”This appeared to have earlier been the case with Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the ringleader of the Paris attacks. He was linked to the terrorist cell that was raided in  near the Belgian-German border in January last year, in which the Belgian authorities said they had foiled an imminent attack. Yet Abaaoud’s importance did not seem to register, he escaped the net and later led the Paris attacks. Belgium’s difficulties in reconciling its French and Flemish-speaking communities were illustrated five years ago when it broke the modern-day  for the longest time failing to form a government. It has so many layers of local and federal authority that information can slip through the gaps. The Brussels-born Abdeslam brothers involved in the Paris attacks were noticed by local police as having been radicalised and as potentially dangerous but when the information was transferred to federal police it appeared to get lost. Belgian intelligence staff have been evaluated positively by foreign intelligence services. “They’re good,” , a former head of French counter-intelligence, but he felt there were not enough of them. Figures are confidential but it is thought that between 600 and 800 people work in civil intelligence and up to 800 work in military intelligence – with perhaps about 500 devoted to tackling Isis. That could equate to a ratio of three officers per jihadi suspect who is considered dangerous. Permanent telephone or human surveillance needs more people than that. Last month the Belgian government announced a €400m (£315m) programme to combat “terrorism and radicalisation” that included the hiring of 1,000 additional police, prosecutors, state security agents and other personnel.As far back as November, Michel, the prime minister, said: “We have to do more, and we have to do better.” After this week’s attacks, those words seem more pertinent than ever.</content>
<class_name>Brussels attacks,Islamic State,UK security and counter-terrorism,Paris attacks,Paris,France,Syria,Espionage,Europe,Middle East and North Africa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T19:53:08+0000</date>
<title>Belgium searches soul after home-grown jihadis slipped through net</title>
<content>How would Brexit affect the threat to the UK from Islamic militancy? A crucial question, though not one that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of Isis, probably spends much time worrying about.Richard Dearlove, the former head of MI6, the British foreign intelligence service, believes that  is that it would allow the UK “greater control over immigration from the EU”.But how significant are migrants from  to the terrorist threat in or against the UK?Dearlove was  from 1999 until 2004. He presided over the service when the emerging global threat posed by Islamic militancy crystallised in a series of attacks, primarily by Osama bin Laden’s al-Qaida. The most infamous took place in the US on 11 September 2001. There were many others.In this period the flow of extremism was more from the UK to the EU than vice versa. There were the preachers and activists from the Middle East who had fled to London to take advantage of the UK’s relatively tolerant attitude to Islamists – much to the frustration of French authorities in particular. Some were wanted for extremist activities in Europe, such as Djamal Beghal, an Algerian organiser later jailed in France and linked to the  last year, or Abu Doha, another militant detained at Heathrow in 2001. In December that year, a British terrorist took off from Paris aiming to bring down a passenger jet bound for the US.The main overseas connection from the UK in the early 2000s was to Pakistan, and to a lesser extent north Africa. A plot to attack shopping malls involved mainly British-born men – plus one who was Algerian-born and raised in London – who travelled to the homeland of their parents and grandparents to get training.Neither the  bombers who attacked London in 2005 nor the unsuccessful 21/7 bombers who followed them came from elsewhere in Europe. Only a tiny minority of other attacks over the following half decade or so have any connection to the EU. Some involved migrants, but rarely from Europe.Some of these plots involved so-called “” – such as the young British woman who stabbed an MP in 2010. Others were more developed and did have connections overseas, though still usually to Pakistan. Again, few, if any, plots are known to have involved people from elsewhere in the EU.The Syrian civil war and the emergence of Islamic State changed much. About 800 Britons have now travelled to Syria, as well as 1,500 French nationals and 800 Belgians. Many of the men who attacked Paris in November, killing 130, and who struck in Brussels on Tuesday, killing 31, were former combatants with Isis. The group has  for their acts and has issued specific threats against the UK.The ease with which several of those involved in recent attacks were able to move through European borders from Syria to their homes in France and Belgium is evidence of a major failing of EU policymaking and policing. Structures, legislation and procedures to secure frontiers and share intelligence in the EU were barely adequate before the Syrian war. Now, they are clearly in need of dramatic overhaul.With Isis now committed to striking in Europe, including the UK, EU citizens certainly pose a potential threat to Britain.But the last death in the UK from terrorist violence was fusilier Lee Rigby, hacked to death in 2013 in Woolwich with knives purchased from a local store by two converts raised in London and living a short drive away. Of the 300 arrested for terrorist offences in the year to March 2015, 78% considered themselves British or dual-British nationality. This week, in a fairly typical plot, .As has historically been the case, the danger posed by EU citizens travelling to the UK is real, but relatively minor. As elsewhere, though many attacks in the UK over the last 15 years have involved a link to a group or faction overseas, almost all have seen local people attacking local targets with locally-sourced means. The threat in the UK does not come primarily from Belgians, Germans or Spaniards but from Britons. It is difficult to see how having “greater control over immigration from the EU” will help the UK stop them.</content>
<class_name>UK security and counter-terrorism,Islamic State,Counter-terrorism policy,EU referendum,European Union,Europe,Foreign policy,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-24T15:26:06+0000</date>
<title>Brexit and terrorism: EU immigration is not the main danger</title>
<content>How many times have I nearly died riding my bike in Britain? Let me count the ways.Most recently, it was going to meet a friend after work in Manchester’s Northern Quarter, less than a mile from the Guardian’s Deansgate office. I decided to try out the new cycle lane on Portland Street, north of Piccadilly Gardens. I couldn’t believe the transport planners actually wanted me to ride between two bus lanes: a  website conveys the full horror of being sandwiched between two double deckers, one of which has to cross the bike lane in order to turn right towards Piccadilly station.We can blame Transport for Greater Manchester for this particular death trap. But in these austere times, local authorities have ever less money to devote to sensible cycling schemes, thanks to central government cuts. That’s why it’s particularly outrageous for the government to sneak out its  on Easter Sunday, and having the brass neck to try to spin its laughably  to make them people’s choice for shorter journeys and to reduce the rate of cyclists killed or seriously injured.Chris Boardman, the former Olympic cycling champion, was on the BBC Breakfast sofa on Sunday morning to point out  the sum pledged by the government is. The £316m promised over the next five years amounts to barely half of the cost of  and works out at £1.38 per person in England outside London. Meanwhile, the Department for Transport has set aside £15bn to upgrade the nation’s motorways and trunk roads.Currently, about 1-2% of all trips in the UK are made by bike, compared with 25% or more in some nations, such as the Netherlands, where about £20 a head is spent on cycling. Yes, the Netherlands is flatter than Britain, but the weather is just as bobbins. If the Dutch can do it, so can we. I just hope I survive to see it happen.</content>
<class_name>Cycling,North of England,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-27T13:15:37+0100</date>
<title>Government's laughable cycling blueprint does nothing to boost safety</title>
<content>Restless Conservative backbenchers are asking what might happen in the days after the EU referendum result – with talk among some them over whether it will trigger a vote of confidence in . A leadership ballot would take place if 50 MPs request it by letter from Graham Brady, the chair of the 1922 committee of backbenchers; the likelihood of that happening depends on the referendum result.What could happen in each of the three main scenarios being talked about?This is the outcome that is seen as the most risky for Cameron in Westminster. A narrow win could lead to backlash and resentment about the prime minister’s tactics, which many feel have been over the top.John Redwood, the senior Tory MP and former leadership contender, delivered a warning shot to Cameron to tone down his campaigning. He wrote on his blog: “As he wishes to remain prime minister, he has to remember that the prime minister has to speak as best he can for the whole nation. As party leader he has to speak for the majority of his party.”Asked whether Cameron would face a leadership challenge whether or not he loses, Redwood said: “I am an optimist. I am giving him measured and sensible advice having watched leaders over the years … I don’t want to get drawn into ‘what ifs’. It is my advice that he will find it easier to put the party together again if he is not leading a partisan campaign on staying in , particularly as he said it was a close call and he could have gone the other way.”A close cabinet colleague agreed that a narrow win could be the most dangerous, putting the party in a “really difficult position”. The colleague added: “They need 50 names [for a vote of confidence] and whether they gets it all depends on the margin – if is is a tight win for remain, people will feel they were robbed.”It is likely that, even if they get 50 names, the prime minister will survive the confidence vote. But the very fact of it happening would be hugely destabilising to his leadership.It is how some Conservative leaders have met their end. Take what happened to Margaret Thatcher whose leadership was first damaged when Sir Anthony Meyer became a “stalking horse” challenger in 1989, with dozens of backbenchers refusing to support her. However, the real blow to Thatcher came when Geoffrey Howe resigned as deputy prime minister and Michael Heseltine launched a formal challenge. She resigned before there was a second round of the ballot as support from senior party figures started to drop away.Iain Duncan Smith called on his critics to unite or get enough letters of no confidence to spark a contest after months of speculation about his leadership in 2003. This was duly done and he lost the ensuing vote of MPs by about 90 to 75.As for John Major, he faced a leadership challenge from Redwood in 1995, and resigned to take on his critics. He won that battle by 218 to 89 although he went on to lose the 1997 election and resign again shortly afterwards. This is the safest result for Cameron. The prime minister has taken a heavy and visible role in the remain camp, touring the country, giving speeches, coordinating business voices and even welcoming the interventions of foreign leaders. In early March, he stood next to France president François Hollande as he threatened that Brexit could lead to the tearing up of a treaty with France that prevents migrants crossing the Channel at Calais.However, many Brexit campaigners – including Conservative voices – feel the prime minister has been over the top,. A cabinet minister in favour of remain told the Guardian that it was unlikely that France would reverse the Le Touquet treaty. Yet, while people like Redwood and Duncan Smith would still be upset about the tactics of those campaigning for in, one cabinet member believes that “most others, including ministers, would say ‘OK it is clear’.” Even so, Cameron’s position may have been weakened by the weeks of bitter infighting within the party, by his admission he does not want to stay on as prime minister beyond 2020 and by the resentment he has caused among the pro-Brexit camp for passionately campaigning to remain.There are some voices beginning to agitate for leadership contest. Alexander Temerko, a major Tory donor and backer of Boris Johnson, wrote in the Guardian on Thursday that the party was fracturing and “the infighting that’s likely to follow the referendum could be disastrous without any uniting influence”. He said his recommendation was “a leadership election immediately after the vote in June to unite MPs and members”.Some Eurosceptic Tory MPs are also arguing that they will need a Eurosceptic prime minister in the event of Brexit to deal with a “tsunami” of EU legislation they believe Brussels has been saving up during the period of referendum uncertainty.Many expect Cameron to resign in this situation, and he will certainly come under huge pressure from the Labour party to do so. But when asked whether he would during prime minister’s questions in the House of Commons, his quick and sharp answer has been “no”. Perhaps Cameron believes he ought to see the process of leaving – which could take years – through.He could yet have unlikely support from Eurosceptics in his party at this point. Take the view of Brady, the 1922 chair, who thinks it is important that people do not think Brexit will cause crisis in the UK. He argued that it was “very important” that Cameron remain, so that there is a period of stability, and an experienced team to deal with the renegotiation.Other less practically minded MPs would see it as the golden opportunity to get rid of a prime minister from the modernising wing of the party, who they have never liked, and replace him with a full-blooded Eurosceptic. A swift challenge after the contest would boost the chances of leadership contenders those who campaigned victoriously for an EU exit at a time when pro-in candidates, most notably George Osborne, would be marginalised. Boris Johnson, the London mayor, made a calculated choice to campaign for Brexit, despite some of his old friends claiming he was really an ‘inner’. If Cameron does choose to resign or faces a no-confidence vote, that has put Johnson in an ideal place to win over the Eurosceptic Conservative grassroots who will choose the next leader from a shortlist of two drawn up by the parliamentary party.There is no shortage of talk among  MPs about trying to round up letters of no confidence in Cameron – and there is growing support for a Boris Johnson-Michael Gove joint ticket.If Cameron stayed on, in effect as a caretaker leader, that could give some recovery time to the possible leadership contenders who campaigned to stay in the EU – such as George Osborne, Stephen Crabb, Nicky Morgan and Sajid Javid. Their chances of succeeding the prime minister might be damaged by a Brexit vote.</content>
<class_name>EU referendum,David Cameron,European Union,Europe,Foreign policy,Conservatives,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T06:00:07+0100</date>
<title>Brexit or remain, can David Cameron survive the EU referendum?</title>
<content>“Politicians keep saying they hear our plight, somehow I don’t see them up for the fight.” These are lines of a poem written by a steelworker at Port Talbot as the board of  Steel met to discuss the plant’s fate. The poem was sent to Stephen Kinnock, the Labour MP, who is campaigning to save the Welsh site.The steelworks has been  since 1901. It employs roughly 4,000 people and produces every Heinz food tin sold in the UK, every roof of a Nissan Juke car and every new 1p and 2p coin.However, as the UK’s largest steelworks, Port Talbot is At its peak at the end of the 1960s and start of the 1970s, the plant employed about 20,000 people. However, like the rest of the UK, it has gradually shrunk. Production of crude steel in the UK fell to the lowest level since the 1930s in 2011.After a fragile recovery since then, the steel industry is now under renewed pressure from a powerful collection of factors. Demand for steel has never recovered since the financial crisis in 2008. As a result, steelworks across the world are estimated to have the capacity to produce 300 million tones more steel than is being used.Imports of Chinese steel into Europe have more than doubled in the last two years as companies have desperately tried to make up for a slowdown in domestic demand by selling steel abroad. The increase in Chinese exports, coupled with slow demand, has helped to send the price of steel down by half since 2011 in Europe.At the same time, energy costs have gone up for steel producers. The Port Talbot plant , which demonstrates why fluctuations in energy prices can have a major impact.The key steel plants in the UK also need to be modernised. Tata has invested £350m in its Welsh operations in the last five years, including £200m for a new blast furnace at Port Talbot. However, it is thought to require another £500m to build new stripping and rolling mills.The squeeze on steel has already led to the collapse of the plant at Redcar in Teeside, as well as thousands of job losses, including at other Tata plants. Tata is pressing ahead with the sale of its business in Scunthorpe to Greybull Capital, an investment firm. Until late last year, the focus of Tata had been on Scunthorpe and its long products division, which includes steel beams and columns.However, with the pressure on the industry showing no signs of easing, the focus has now switched to Tata’s strip products business, which includes Port Talbot and makes a wide range of steel designs. Port Talbot is understood to be losing more than £1m a day. One industry source said: “It is clear that strip products is now making a bigger loss than long products ever was.”Tata Steel took control of Port Talbot in 2007 when it bought Corus, previously known as British Steel, for £6.2bn. The company employs roughly 80,000 people across five continents. It could never have imagined that less than ten years after it bought  it would have faced such a crisis.The turnaround plan for Port Talbot and the strip products division involves cutting around £350m of costs and focusing on high-end products for key industries such as automotive, engineering and consumer goods.However, a key backer of the plan, Karl Koehler, chief executive of Tata Steel Europe, announced he was leaving the company last month. In order for the plan to work, Tata needs to pump more investment into its UK operations. The company says it has already invested £1.5bn since buying Corus, but this has been outweighed by the £2bn impairment charges on its UK operations as the losses have racked up.As a result, Tata is under pressure in  to pull out of the UK and focus on its domestic steel business, which is benefitting from the introduction of tariffs against Chinese steel – a move the Conservative government is reluctant to follow.</content>
<class_name>Tata,Corus,Manufacturing sector,Steel industry,India,Wales,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T20:24:54+0100</date>
<title>Port Talbot – heart of the storm battering Britain's steel industry</title>
<content>A Brexit vote would trigger an exodus of UK expatriates from , according to a column in the Times. Fear, says the newspaper, is pushing thousands to return home to Britain.The Times quotes  which say that 1.22 million Britons are living in other EU countries at present. The same source shows that in 2010 the figure was 1.18 million. The estimated number of British migrants in the EU has therefore slightly increased during the six years to 2015.The article states that, daily, about 100 Britons have been leaving Spain over the past two years. According to UN data slightly fewer than 309,000 UK nationals were living in Spain during the period, compared to  in 2013. The 2010 level was 319,144 people.However, the article’s claim that the drop in the number living in Spain is driven by Brexit fears has not been substantiated. Data published by Spain’s national statistics office reveal that due to the country’s economic woes, which have affected both Spanish nationals and foreign-born residents.According to the same UN data, the number of EU citizens living in the UK was 2.9 million in 2015, up from 2.6 in 2010, and in line with . However, it is quite likely that the UN data  the number of Britons living abroad and the number of EU nationals in the UK, because EU citizens living in other member states do not have to register their arrival. For example,  that 808,000 UK nationals were living in Spain permanently.Moreover as the piece itself states, there is no indication to suggest a spike in Britons returning home. According to 87,000 British citizens returned to the UK in the year ending September 2015. This is similar to the previous year when 81,000 citizens did so, and it is lower than the equivalent period in 2010 when 92,000 went back to Britain.Britain’s relationship with the EU, following any vote to leave the union, seems unclear. But it is fair to say that a potential Brexit could lead to uncertainty and concern for those living abroad or planning to depart. But that factor would apply to both British migrants abroad and European expats in the UK. </content>
<class_name>The Times,Office for National Statistics,European Union,Expat finance,Benefits,Europe,Spain,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T16:56:49+0100</date>
<title>Will Brexit mean a Brit expat exodus?</title>
<content>Just when Europe needed it least, a string of confusing and inconclusive elections this year – from Spain and Ireland to  and Portugal – has produced fractured parliaments, improbable and unstable coalitions, and weaker, more divided governments.As countries struggle to shake off the eurozone’s financial crisis, migration and Islamist terror are overtaking the economy as most voters’ main concerns, magnifying deeper social changes that have seen support for mainstream parties plunge and anti-austerity, anti-EU or anti-immigrant .Results from Germany’s March 13 regional polls, in which both Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats and their Social Democrat “grand coalition” partners lost votes to liberals, Greens and above all the anti-immigrant AfD, suggest that even in Europe’s powerhouse, the federal elections of 2017 will mark an end to a culture of political stability that has lasted since the second world war. “What we’re seeing is a , on the left and on the right,” said Simon Hix, professor of European and comparative politics at the London School of Economics (LSE). “The mainstream parties of the centre-left and centre-right that could once rely on 40% of the vote are now reduced to 20 or 25%. It’s happening everywhere, and it can be massively problematic.”In Slovakia,  returned eight wildly different parties to parliament, including two from the far right. Prime minister Robert Fico and his centre-left Smer-SD party technically won, with 28% of the vote, but lost their majority.After 10 days of negotiations, Fico cobbled together a shaky new coalition with the small right wing Slovak National party, the centre-right liberals and a party representing Slovakia’s Hungarian minority. But all were fiercely antagonistic during the election campaign and the new government looks riven with rivalries and disagreements.Spain, meanwhile, whose voting system was designed after its return to democracy in the 1970s to deliver strong majorities and a stable two-party system, remains without a government nearly three months after . The ruling centre-right People’s party finished first on 29% – 16 points down on its 2011 score – while its traditional rivals, the centre-left PSOE, managed just 22%. Two newcomers, the leftist populists of Podemos and the liberal reformists of Ciudadanos, polled 21% and 14%, producing a perfect political stalemate and leaving fresh elections in June as the most likely outcome.Following inconclusive elections on 4 October, Portugal is  – the first since it became a democratic country four decades ago – of socialists, communists, greens and the left bloc that narrowly toppled a conservative minority government of just 11 days’ standing in a dramatic parliamentary vote.Ireland’s elections on 26 February also followed the general direction, after prime minister Enda Kenny’s  as voters made their anti-austerity feelings clear. The most obvious option might be a grand centrist coalition of Kenny’s Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil – except that the two parties have been rivals since the 1920s.These most recent elections are not the only evidence of a fractured political landscape: Belgium’s present precarious administration, often referred to as “the kamikaze coalition”, was so difficult to assemble it was not sworn in for 138 days after elections in May 2014; in  and Denmark, fraught minority cabinets survive at the whim of anti-immigration populists who hold the balance of power.Upcoming votes are unlikely to be any different. Besides Germany’s federal elections next year, polls in the Netherlands suggest that in the next parliamentary elections due in March 2017, the three traditional parties of Dutch government – the socialist PvdA, Christian democrat CDA and liberal VVD – will struggle to reach 40% of the popular vote between them. That is roughly the same share that any one of those parties might have expected to win on their own just a few years ago.Analysts note that economic upheaval has long been known to erode consensus politics. found last year that, historically, “policy uncertainty rises strongly after financial crises, as government majorities shrink and polarisation rises”.After a crisis, the study’s authors wrote, “voters seem particularly attracted to the , which often attributes blame to minorities or foreigners”. On average, the study’s authors found, far-right parties increased their vote share by 30% in the five years following a financial crisis.That has certainly been the case in western Europe and Scandinavia, where fragmentation is driving the rapid rise of radical anti-EU, anti-immigrant parties such as , the Danish People’s party and Germany’s AfD (Alternative für Deutschland).In central and eastern , more old-style nationalist, authoritarian, sometimes religious but essentially ultraconservative parties such as Poland’s Law and Justice and Hungary’s Fidesz have been propelled to power.In the southern European countries hardest hit by the economic downturn – , Portugal and Greece – post-2008 polarisation has largely favoured the far left rather than the far right, due essentially to their relatively recent experience of fascist rule.But the result is nonetheless the same: across a continent, mainstream parties and alliances that once dominated national politics are in headlong retreat, making coalition-forming harder – even in countries long used to coalition government – and producing weak, potentially short-lived governments.Into this already unsettled picture has erupted the  since the second world war, dramatically exacerbating a trend towards fragmentation that is now evident almost everywhere (although masked in Britain by a first-past-the-post electoral system which, unlike the proportional representation systems on much of the continent, makes it very difficult for smaller parties to break through nationally). Political fragmentation matters because the flimsy governments and splintered legislatures that often result can make it far harder for countries to adopt tough domestic reforms or accept socially controversial policies – such as accepting large numbers of refugees. Internationally, too, challenging but increasingly necessary reforms – to the eurozone’s rules, for example, or the EU’s asylum policy – become correspondingly more problematic.“I see two possible scenarios,” Hix said. “Either Europe’s mainstream parties get used to this new world and start thinking seriously about ways to build entirely new kinds of broad-based coalitions. “Or they don’t, in which case the outcome could be real political crisis, and even ungovernability.” </content>
<class_name>Europe,Economics,Spain,Ireland,Slovakia,Poland,Belgium,Germany,Sweden,Migration,Refugees,Economic recovery,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T08:53:53+0100</date>
<title>Why is support for Europe's mainstream political parties on the wane?</title>
<content>The decision to move a valuable photography collection from Bradford’s National Media Museum to London was “the right professional thing to do”, the director of the museum has insisted during a grilling by a committee of the city’s councillors.Appearing in front of a Bradford Council scrutiny committee meeting organised to examine plans to relocate around 400,000 objects from the  museum to a new “international photography resource centre” at the Victoria and Albert museum in Kensington, Jo Quinton-Tulloch said the museum had been forced to make practical decisions in response to a 30% cut to its government funding.The plans to move the collection were announced  and prompted  from local politicians and  to keep the collection in the West Yorkshire city has been signed by over 27,000 people. The artist David Hockney, film director Mike Leigh and photographer Don McCullin were among .Quinton-Tulloch said the decision was not about London or Bradford, but was about making the collection more accessible to people generally. Budget restraints had encouraged the museum to refine its focus to the science of photography and film rather than art photography, she said, and the collection would therefore be better looked after at the V&A.The museum’s director, who was head of exhibitions at the science museum in London before moving to head up the Bradford museum in 2012, said that a focus on science would leave the institution better able to attract the funding it needed.The Royal Photographic Society (RPS) collection, dating from 1827 to 2016, has been based in . Among the items moving to the V&A are works by the British photography pioneers William Henry Fox Talbot, who invented the negative/positive process for producing photographs, and Julia Margaret Cameron, known for her pre-Raphaelite-inspired portrait photography.“Some of [the National Media Museum’s] collections without a doubt support our new vision,” said Quinton-Tulloch. “But there’s a body of material, and the RPS collection falls absolutely in this, which is more art photography and that is not an area that we are going to curate anymore, and we don’t have the resource to make it actively available.” “We could leave it within the stores in Bradford, but that would not be the right professional thing to do as a national institution,” she said, adding that the museum had failed to communicate its plans effectively to MPs, the local council and the public at large. showed that only Tate Modern in London and the V&A were given the opportunity to bid for Bradford’s RPS collection and members of the public attending the meeting on Tuesday complained that the decision had been made by a “southern elite” who made no effort to keep the collection in the north of England.The Royal Photographic Society  that it was not consulted about the decision to move its collection, saying in a statement that it would prefer that the collection remained in Bradford provided the museum remained a well-staffed centre for photography.Despite claims that the RPS photography collection would be more accessible to the public in London, a Freedom of Information request by the Guardian revealed that an exhibition of more than 200 photographs from the collection had 8,000 more visitors in Bradford than it did in London. According to information gathered by door counters, exit surveys and ticket sales,  was seen by 29,000 people when on display in the north for free, while 21,260 paid £8 for adults and £5 for children to see the show in the Science Museum in London.</content>
<class_name>Museums,Bradford,V&A,Photography,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T20:01:48+0100</date>
<title>Bradford museum director defends collection's move to London</title>
<content>People in  are being asked to take part in a mass naked art event as the city continues to prepare to be the UK City of Culture.Hull is to be the latest to host a one-off installation by the American photographer , who is known for his images of masses of naked people taken at locations all over the world.The installation will be made on Saturday 9 July, when the weather will, it is hoped, be a little warmer and drier than the the current conditions on the east coast of England.The finished work will be unveiled in 2017 when Hull is the UK City of Culture.Organisers say  will give hundreds of people the opportunity to become part of the artwork.Participants covered in specially formulated cosmetic body make-up will position themselves in front of Tunick’s camera in multiple colours of the sea to create abstract shapes separating the body from the pavement in dramatic ways, they said.New York-based Tunick has created more than 90 installations at landmarks and cities including the Sydney Opera House, Place des Arts in Montreal, Mexico City, Ernest Happel Stadium in Vienna and Munich, Germany.He said: “I’m very interested in the history of the city and its place as a seafaring centre and its relationship to a rich maritime past.“It intrigues me that in some places where there are major streets or parks today, previously there was water. To reflect this I’ll be using body paint so that the massed people create the idea of a sea of humanity flooding the urban landscape.”He said: “This is a wonderful opportunity for anyone interested in art who wants to pose nude but is modest. The body paint will help many participants to overcome their inhibitions – after all, they will still be covered in a way.”Kirsten Simister, curator at Hull’s Ferens art gallery, said: “This is more than a commission. It’s an opportunity to involve people directly in an amazing live, performance that will temporarily transform the city.”She said: “His new body of work will form part of an exhibition in 2017 and will also be purchased for the permanent collection. With hundreds upon hundreds of people coming together to be photographed, Sea Of Hull anticipates the exciting things to come at the Ferens next year.”The artist will create a second installation on Sunday 10 July, inviting a select group of participants to take part in another event in North Lincolnshire.All participants, who must be over 18, will receive a limited edition photograph. The registration deadline is 15 May.</content>
<class_name>Photography,Spencer Tunick,Art,Hull,UK city of culture,Festivals,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T07:29:32+0100</date>
<title>Hull citizens invited to undress for nude City of Culture artwork</title>
<content>Wolf Hall is set to dominate this year’s Bafta television awards with four nominations including its star Mark Rylance who will compete with Luther’s Idris Elba for the best acting prize.There was also a first nomination for singer Adele, for her BBC1 special Adele at the BBC, but nothing for ITV’s Downton Abbey in its last chance to break its Bafta TV awards duck.BBC2’s  led the pack in the nominations announced on Wednesday, with three nominations each for  and Channel 4 drama, .But there was nothing for BBC1 drama Poldark, starring Aidan Turner, which became .Downton Abbey, which ended on ITV last year, also missed out and has never won a Bafta TV award despite being one of the broadcaster’s biggest shows and leading the British invasion of US television. It had the last year.Rylance, who  for his role in Steven Spielberg’s Bridge of Spies, will go up against Elba, Ben Whishaw for his role in BBC2’s , and This is England’s Stephen Graham.Rylance’s Wolf Hall co-star Claire Foy is nominated for best actress alongside Sheridan Smith for BBC1’s The C-Word, Suranne Jones, star of BBC1’s Doctor Foster, and Ruth Madeley (BBC3’s Don’t Take My Baby).Adele, who won  following the record-breaking success of her third album, 25, is nominated in the entertainment category for her TV special in which she sang songs from the album and talked to Graham Norton.She will compete against Chris Evans’s TFI Friday anniversary special on Channel 4, BBC1’s Strictly Come Dancing and Simon Cowell’s Britain’s Got Talent for ITV.BBC1’s The Great British Bake Off, the , received its fifth consecutive Bafta nomination.Two of the most acclaimed actors of their generation received best supporting actor nods – Ian McKellen for his role opposite Anthony Hopkins in BBC2’s The Dresser, and Tom Courtenay for ITV’s Unforgotten. It is McKellen’s first Bafta TV nomination – he has been nominated four times in the film awards, but never won.Wolf Hall was nominated for best drama series along with sci-fi drama Humans and Paul Abbott’s No Offence, both on Channel 4, and Sky Atlantic’s The Last Panthers, starring John Hurt.Two BBC1 dramas, Doctor Foster and London Spy, were nominated for best mini-series, alongside This is England ’90 and Sky Living’s The Enfield Haunting.Jack Thorne, , is up for a total of three awards, his nominations hat-trick completely by BBC3’s Don’t Take My Baby, nominated for best single drama.Among the comedy nominations , which debuted on the BBC1’s iPlayer, led the way with performance nominations for both Kay and his co-star and co-writer, Sian Gibson.Car Share was also nominated in the scripted comedy category, along with the final run of Channel 4’s Peep Show, E4’s  and , on BBC3.Amazon Prime’s transgender comedy Transparent, starring Jeffrey Tambor, is up for Bafta’s international prize - its first Bafta nomination - along with Netflix original production Narcos, French police drama Spiral and CBS’s the Good Wife.Louis Theroux is nominated for the single documentary prize for his BBC2 programme, Transgender Kids, along with Channel 4’s My Son The Jihadi, BBC1’s Life After Suicide and Adam Curtis’s Bitter Lake, on the BBC iPlayer.Other nominations include Turner prize winner Grayson Perry for Channel 4’s Grayson Perry’s Dream House in the specialist factual category and BBC2’s Stargazing Live: Brit in Space, about astronaut Tim Peake on the International Space Station, which is nominated for best live event.In the news coverage category, both BBC1 and Channel 4 News are nominated for their coverage of last year’s Paris attacks. Without a nomination in any of the main awards, Poldark – famous for its scenes of topless scything – also  earlier this month.But the drama remake did make the cut for Bafta’s Radio Times audience award, which is voted for by viewers and will also be presented on the night, one of a six-strong shortlist alongside Doctor Foster, Peter Kay’s Car Share, The Great British Bake Off, Humans and Netflix documentary series Making a Murderer.The Bafta TV awards will take place at London’s Royal Festival Hall on 8 May.</content>
<class_name>Television industry,Baftas 2016,Baftas,Television,Awards and prizes,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T08:12:39+0100</date>
<title>BBC's Wolf Hall leads Bafta TV award nominations</title>
<content>The family owned bookseller Foyles returned to profit last year as its new London flagship proved to be a beacon for book lovers. Sales  in the former Central Saint Martins art school on Charing Cross Road – a few doors down from its famously dishevelled old shop – jumped by 10% in the year to 30 June as customers turned out to meet famous authors including Hilary Mantel, Yotam Ottolenghi and PD James. The four-storey building, which stocks more than 200,000 titles along four miles of shelves, also boasts its own auditorium. The retailer reported a small operating profit for the year to 30 June, a return to the black after significant one-off costs pulled it down to an  the previous year.Paul Currie, the Foyles chief executive, said: “We have returned the business from being at a loss in a year of great change to a position of profit and stability. This has been achieved through careful cost control and smart operating processes.”Currie, who , has overhauled the retailer’s “Foyalty” scheme and website, but says there is more to do. “Whilst this is an improvement on 2013-14, we are still challenged by low margins in a retail sector that has heavy costs of operations and low sales density,” he said.The Foyle family ploughed an additional £2m into the business in 2013 via a rights issue. Christopher Foyle, the chairman, who owns two-thirds of the 113-year-old company, wants to make its stores a magnet for book lovers by creating the kind of experience that draws shoppers to Harrods or Hamleys.Currie said its other London stores, in Westfield Stratford City, Waterloo station and Royal Festival Hall, as well as its Bristol Cabot Circus branch, enjoyed robust trading as shoppers responded to the Summer of Stories series of children’s events, and events with Aardman animations and Books Are My Bag. In September, Foyles opened in Birmingham’s Grand Central shopping centre.In January, the retailer reported strong Christmas trading, with like-for-like sales up by 4.7% in December.</content>
<class_name>Booksellers,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-29T14:18:54+0100</date>
<title>Foyles returns to profit in 2015 with help of new London store</title>
<content>It was billed as the “everyday story of country folk” but a storyline on Radio 4’s  could end in murder, the programme’s editor has revealed.Sean O’Connor hinted that domestic abuser Rob Titchener, centre of one of the long-running show’s most controversial plots, could end up murdering his wife Helen.O’Connor, who is about to leave the soap for the typically grittier pastures of BBC1’s EastEnders, said the show was not about “chocolate box storylines” and told listeners to  4’s Woman’s Hour that Rob might be “capable of murder”.The revelation drew an angry response from many Archers fans, with Woman’s Hour presenter Jane Garvey describing it as the programme’s biggest ever reaction on Twitter.“A lot of people are actually saying, ‘I don’t want The Archers to be like EastEnders,’” she said.It would be the first murder to feature in the Archers’ 65-year history. Two years ago the BBC’s director of radio Helen Boaden told how she had .“Murders in country villages by people you have never met are unbelievably rare. And this felt so far-fetched that I banned it –to the great chagrin of the then editor,” said Boaden, who is still the BBC’s radio chief.But O’Connor, , said: “The Archers is not a chocolate box storyline set in the 1950s. We’ve been doing hard-hitting storylines since the early times of the show.”Asked if Titchener was capable of murder, O’Connor said: “Maybe he is, yes, maybe he is capable of murder.”One of the most toxic storylines in the Archers for decades, the story of Helen’s emotional and physical abuse at the hands of her husband has been building for two years and has had a mixed reception among its listeners. O’Connor said: “It’s absolutely the sort of thing that The Archers should be doing. It’s going to take a long time. I can’t offer you any easy resolution.”One listener was so moved by Helen’s plight that he  asking concerned listeners to donate money for Refuge. So far, it has raised nearly £80,000.O’Connor said it was the biggest single donation given to Refuge in its 35 year history and “shows the democracy of the new media age - they decided it’s an important story that needs dealing with, it’s amazing and humbling”.Sandra Horley, chief executive of Refuge, told Woman’s Hour: “Domestic abuse isn’t a working class issue, it’s a bit snooty to say we don’t want The Archers to become like EastEnders. “There is this feeling that this sort of thing shouldn’t be happening in The Archers but it happens in real life. Thousands and thousands of women from all classes, all racs, all backgrounds, experience domestic violence.“What’s so fantastic about The Archers is that it’s shining a light on a really important social problem and bringing it in to our living rooms.”Louiza Patikas, the actor who plays Helen, told the programme: “Anyone could be vulnerable to a man like Rob. I did lots of research, the most valuable thing was to sit around and talk to a survivor of similar abuse. “It was incredibly difficult and upsetting to listen to, I do understand how the audience are feeling. I hope I’m doing it as truthfully and faithfully as possible. I don’t struggle to leave it behind but I am thinking about it a lot at home.”</content>
<class_name>Radio 4,BBC,Radio industry,The Archers,Radio,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T10:34:21+0100</date>
<title>The Archers domestic abuse storyline could end in murder, says show's editor</title>
<content>The editor-in-chief of the Eurosceptic Daily Mail benefited from at least £88,000 in subsidies from the  for his country houses in Sussex and the Scottish highlands in 2014.Payments from the EU totalling £59,534.85 were made in 2014 for Langwell estate, a 20,000-acre stretch of moorland near Ullapool in the Scottish Highlands owned by . A further £29,118.76 was paid to a P Dacre in respect of a home in Wadhurst, Sussex during the year.The payments were made under the common agricultural policy, one of many EU institutions regularly attacked in the pages of the tabloid.The payments for Langwell, , come on top of almost half a million euros the estate received between 2011 and 2012 from the funds set up under the CAP. Governments are only required to list CAP payments covering the most recent financial year, however Farmsubsidy.org, which archives the records, lists payments totalling €179,267 for the property in 2011, rising to €300,408 the following year. Under today’s exchange rates, Dacre has benefited from at least £460,000 in subsidies since 2011.Langwell was bought by Dacre and wife Kathleen for £2.45m in 2009, according to documents from the Scottish land registry. It is run as a sporting estate, with accommodation for up to 20 and activities including deer stalking, salmon fishing and grouse shooting. The 2014 payment for the estate include £3,000 for the “encouragement of tourist activities” and £7,000 in “payments to farmers in areas with handicaps”.Dacre’s house in Wadhurst has been dubbed Dacre Towers and is famed for having a mile-long drive.Dacre is Fleet Street’s longest serving editor after becoming editor of the Mail in 1992 and also its highest paid, having taken home £2.4m in 2014. The Mail has intensified its anti-EU coverage in the run-up to the referendum on 23 June. As recently as last month, the paper was criticising David Cameron for failing to secure reform of CAP in his negotiations with leaders from other EU nations. A spokesperson for the Langwell estate said: “Both Langwell and Wadhurst are working businesses. Langwell is run as a farming, holiday lettings and sporting business which makes a not insignificant contribution to the local economy. Wadhurst is a working cattle and arable farm. “The agricultural subsidies you refer to were available to every farmer in Britain and, in the case of Scotland, included reimbursements for extensive woodland planting schemes (native – not commercial trees) to improve the ecology of this wildly beautiful and remote area. “In their determination to make Langwell economically and environmentally sustainable, the owners are spending considerable sums of their own money on developing the farm, estate and its buildings. Despite this, the business runs at a loss.” </content>
<class_name>Paul Dacre,Daily Mail,EU referendum,European Union,Agriculture,Europe,National newspapers,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T20:34:13+0100</date>
<title>Daily Mail editor received £88,000 in EU subsidies in 2014</title>
<content>Britain’s pollsters will be required to explain what they have done to improve their techniques, after an inquiry into what went wrongin the run-up to last year’s general election concluded the surveys were systematically flawed.An independent industry inquiry led by Prof Patrick Sturgis of the University of Southampton, commissioned in the aftermath of the polls’ failure to predict the scale of a Conservative victory, concluded that market research companies will have to show how they have improved by 2020.The inquiry was commissioned by the British Polling Council (BPC), which represents the industry.Its president, Prof John Curtice, said the body will look to implement the report’s recommendations on transparency but cannot compel members to use a certain type of methodology.“At the end of the day, how people respond to the inquiry’s recommendations, how they decide to do their polls in future, is a decision for individual members,” he said. “However, the BPC recognises that simply saying ‘well OK, it’s all fine, everybody go off and do their own thing’, may not be thought of as an adequate response to what happened in 2015.” The BPC will issue a report before the 2020 general election detailing how companies have changed their sampling and weighting procedures since 2015, when most pollsters were predicting a hung parliament. The inquiry noted that, in historical terms, the 2015 polls were some of the most inaccurate since election polling first began in the UK in 1945. On average, their final estimates put both the Tories and  on 34% – and these figures influenced the parties’ strategies, media coverage and, possibly, voter behaviour.In the event, the Tories won a small majority with 38% of the vote compared with Labour’s 31%.Sturgis said the media and others who rely on polling need to be “more realistic about the risks that polls can be wrong” and that polls in statistical terms are wrong “quite frequently”. Only significant shifts in party shares – a movement of 5% either way – were significant, he added. The inquiry team also confirmed initial conclusions that the primary cause of the errors was unrepresentative sampling – those surveyed were not a representative selection of the nation’s voters.The Sturgis inquiry concluded: “The methods the pollsters used to collect samples of voters systematically over-represented Labour supporters and under-represented Conservative supporters.” Adjustments used historically to contend with the so-called “shy Tory” phenomenon – where Conservative voters were unwilling to identify themselves – also proved to be insufficient. “The statistical adjustment procedures applied to the raw data did not mitigate this basic problem to any notable degree.”However, although initial steps towards fixing what went wrong will be taken immediately, the bulk of the changes recommended in Thursday’s report are unlikely to be in place before the 23 June EU referendum. The inquiry also said that pollsters should review existing methods for determining turnout probabilities and how they allocate “don’t knows” – because existing procedures are often ad hoc and lack a coherent theoretical rationale.Moreover, the report suggests including questions to determine whether respondents have already voted by post and recommends that new measures to obtain and weight samples are investigated and adopted.It also recommends a series of changes to BPC rules in order to require polling companies to provide additional information and methodological detail around their polls, and more explicitly state the adjustments and variables they used to weight results of raw polls.The report notes that the decrease in the Conservative polling lead in the final week of the campaign across all polls is consistent with herding – when pollsters tweak figures so that published results are all similar. It concludes that this convergence was unlikely to have been the result of deliberate collusion or malpractice. </content>
<class_name>Opinion polls,Conservatives,Labour,General election 2015,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:01:36+0100</date>
<title>Pollsters must explain improvements before 2020 general election</title>
<content>It has been  in the history of British public libraries. And now, deepening cuts in public spending are to force four out of a London borough’s 10 libraries to close, move or be taken over by community volunteers.The  and  libraries in Lambeth, south London, will close at 6pm on Thursday – the end of the financial year but also peak exam revision time.Both are scheduled to reopen in a year as curious hybrids: part private gym, part host to shelves of books with no dedicated staff, which campaigners argue will fail to fulfil the function of a library.Later this year another library, in Waterloo, will be relocated to a temporary home belonging to a church-based community group. The fourth, in Upper Norwood, is being handed over to a group of volunteers.The changes highlight a wider trend, which, according to a BBC analysis this week, has seen almost 350 libraries closed over the past six years, with the loss of about 8,000 jobs.Four areas – Sefton in Merseyside, Brent in north-west , Stoke-on-Trent and Sunderland – have lost more than half their libraries since 2010, the BBC data team said.Lambeth insists it is seeking creative solutions to a budgetary crisis faced by one of the UK’s most deprived boroughs and that other areas face bigger cuts than the 25% reduction in the libraries budget. Opponents counter that the changes are unpopular and chaotic. They say the two libraries closing on Thursday will remain untouched for months as officials remain unsure how to install “healthy living centres” in the Grade II-listed structures.“It’s pointless,” said Laura Swaffield, chair of the Friends of Lambeth , a pressure group that has campaigned noisily over the planned changes. “The staff are still on the payroll pending a restructure. They’re also paying for security guards now the buildings will close.“They’ll be spending more money on keeping them closed than keeping them open. Work is not going to start on either of those two libraries, because in both cases the plans are an absolute shambles.”Lambeth disputed this, saying staff would be reallocated to other libraries. There was no option but to close them before the new budgetary year, according to Jane Edbrooke, the council’s cabinet member whose brief covers libraries. “We have to set a legal budget,” she said. “If we incur additional costs from 1 April we have to make further cuts from elsewhere in the budget.” Opponents, however, argue Lambeth has mishandled the process, consulting on a variety of options before deciding at the last minute to hand the two libraries , a social enterprise that runs gyms and libraries for a number of councils.No plan has been publicly presented for fitting the gyms into the buildings. The  has called for Lambeth to reconsider this for the Carnegie, saying this seemed difficult for “a particularly attractive and important example of its type”.The  (Cilip), meanwhile, has raised concerns about plans for libraries without dedicated staff.A library “doesn’t just mean a room with books”, said Nick Poole, chief executive of Cilip. “It means getting people the information they need, when they need it. Information to help them build a business, find things to read, do their homework, access healthcare information or participate in their community. “Google may bring you a million answers, but a skilled professional librarian will bring you the right one, saving you time and money. If a venue can’t provide this, then it isn’t a library.”Edbrooke rejected this criticism, saying the buildings would have staff on a joint reception desk for the gym and library: “For me it’s whether there are people there who welcome you to a building, answer your queries and that there’s a well stocked book service.“It is disappointing that we haven’t had the exact plans in place on the day the door closes, I’ll acknowledge that.” But she insisted both buildings would reopen in spring next year.Swaffield is doubtful. “Absolutely no one wants a gym at Carnegie, and the only way they can force people to have a gym is by spending God knows what on hollowing out the basement,” she said. “It’s farcical.”“I don’t think they even know when work is going to start, so reopening in early 2017 is wildly optimistic.” Yet another element of the debate is a point made by Edbrooke: that while libraries tend to have vocal, eloquent local defenders, users of other services sometimes do not. She said: “There are other councils out there who don’t have any domestic violence services and no one made a mention because, funnily enough, those women were far too vulnerable to kick up a noise about it.”</content>
<class_name>Libraries,London,Local government,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:51:39+0100</date>
<title>Lambeth library plans condemned as 'absolute shambles'</title>
<content>A handwritten draft of a Sherlock Holmes mystery from 1893 is to be sold at a fine literature auction in  – with estimates suggesting it could go for up to £300,000.The Adventure of the Greek Interpreter is one of the 56 short stories written by  about the detective Sherlock Holmes. The story is best known for the first appearance of Holmes’s older brother, Mycroft.Several other  manuscripts will also be on sale at Bonhams auction house in New York on 11 April.The sale also includes a handwritten page from , the most famous of Conan Doyle’s stories, which marks the return of Holmes after his supposed death at .The page is estimated at £70,000 to £110,000 and is considered especially valuable as it features a discussion between Holmes and Dr Watson. It is one of the few surviving pages from the original manuscript, as most were lost or stolen when they were distributed to bookshops as a publicity stunt.The sale also features a handwritten copy of one of the last Sherlock Holmes mysteries, The Problem of Thor Bridge, which is expected to be sold for up to £250,000, and a manuscript of one of ’s romantic historical novels, Rodney Stone: a Reminiscence of the Ring.</content>
<class_name>Arthur Conan Doyle,New York,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-30T18:51:58+0100</date>
<title>Sherlock Holmes manuscript expected to fetch up to £300,000</title>
<content>The BBC has unveiled the first official glimpse of the new-look Top Gear featuring  and Matt LeBlanc.The 60-second trailer, which was released on Thursday, features a host of supercars including the moment when Evans is sick on a trackside in California after going for a spin in an Audi R8 V10 with co-star, Sabine Schmitz.The clip also features former Friends star LeBlanc driving a Reliant three-wheeler from London to Blackpool and a Dodge Viper ACR with a Browning machine-gun attached to its roof being driven at a military base in Nevada.The new series of BBC2’s  – the first since the departure of Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May – is one of the most anticipated shows of the year.The clip includes footage shot in the UK, US, France, Morocco and the United Arab Emirates and features cars including the Aston Martin Vulcan, Ferrari F12 TDF and Ariel Nomad.Stylistically, at least, the trailer offers up a familiar mix for Top Gear fans including cars racing jets, machine guns, celebrity guests (Jenson Button) and a presenter - in this case LeBlanc - being the butt of the joke.The song - in case you are wondering - is I Just Want To Celebrate, a .The show has already proved controversial after LeBlanc and rally driver Ken Block were filmed doing “doughnuts” close to London’s Cenotaph. Evans  for the scenes which May later described as “ill-advised”.It also suffered the  after five months, and the  after reports had suggested he had objected to the signing of LeBlanc.The new series is expected to air towards the end of May and may be shorter than its original intended run of eight episodes. The  is yet to confirm a start date or the length of the new run.Clarkson, May and Hammond are working on a new series for Amazon Prime after signing a  following Clarkson’s axing by the BBC. he was not in a race to beat Evans on screen, with the Amazon show expected to debut in the autumn.There is much riding on the new series of Top Gear for the BBC, , and BBC2’s most popular show.</content>
<class_name>BBC,Chris Evans,Television industry,Top Gear,Television,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:00:25+0100</date>
<title>Top Gear: Chris Evans and Matt LeBlanc star in first trailer for revamped show</title>
<content>Senior medics have called for dying patients to have 24/7 access to specialist end of life care after it emerged that most hospitals only provide telephone contact after hours and others have no specialists at all.The call follows a report into NHS , which found that patients who die overnight or at the weekend may not have access to the right care because only 11% of hospital trusts in England provide specialist palliative services round the clock. Amanda Cheesley, the Royal College of Nursing’s professional lead on end of life care, said hospitals should be providing end of life care at all times. “Absolutely [there should be a palliative care specialist on hand all the time],” she told BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “With the best will in the world, general training does not give you the additional skills you need if someone has complex needs or the medication or treatment is no longer working and you have done everything you possibly [could] have done.”The audit of end of life care by the Royal College of Physicians (RCP) and Marie Curie, which analysed the care of more than 9,300 patients, found that there had been “a broad front of improvements in nearly all aspects of care of the dying in hospitals” after the . However, it also found that less than a third of patients were reviewed by a member of a specialist palliative care team within 24 hours of admission to hospital.Cheesley said specialists did not necessarily require highly technical skills. “They need to be providing people who are dying and their families with the assurance and the confidence that people looking after them are well trained, are confident in what they are doing and are competent and are kind, nice people. “An awful lot of this is about people keeping an eye on someone, hearing what they want and making sure that they get it.”Prof Sam Ahmedzai, clinical lead for the end of life audit report on behalf of the RCP, said help was usually available, but it may not be face to face. “The vast majority of hospital trusts do provide telephone service[s] around the clock. People on the wards can get hold of advice on the telephone.”It would be a significant investment to provide 24/7 palliative care, he said. “It costs money to have a rotation of five or six junior doctors, five or six consultants, on call for a population of half a million. “Put that across the country, to go from the position we are in now to having 24/7 services does require a lot of new investment or reinvestment.”Ahmedzai said specialists were needed not just for medical reasons, but also as emotional support for patients and families. “When it comes to sitting down, putting a hand on someone and talking face to face, soul to soul, that requires a special kind of person and that requires them to be available round the clock,” he told the BBC. “And also for family members as well, often the patients are too ill for communication but family members are needing that.”Another key concern in the report was the  to give them comfort, including drinking water. Only 10% of dying patients in some hospitals were assessed as to whether they needed help consuming fluids, the audit found. Cheesley said giving patients access to drinking water was often a highly emotive issue, which families found particularly distressing. “I know that sounds counterintuitive when people express that they are thirsty, but there is a fear that if you do give them something to drink, they are going to choke, and people who are dying quite often do choke,” she said. “And also people who are dying, or some people, really don’t want to have anything to drink. I cared for my sister when she was dying with her family. And her family were absolutely distraught when she no longer wanted anything to drink and it’s very difficult to persuade people that this is [what happens in] the end of dying phase sometimes.”</content>
<class_name>NHS,Death and dying,Health,Hospitals,Doctors,Nursing,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T09:09:32+0100</date>
<title>Doctors call for dying patients to have 24/7 access to end of life care</title>
<content>Britain and the US will stage a war-game later this year, simulating a cyber attack on a nuclear power plant, to test the readiness of the government and utility firms.As David Cameron prepares to fly to Washington to attend a nuclear security summit, convened by Barack Obama, government sources said the two countries plan to cooperate on exploring the resilience of nuclear infrastructure to a terrorist attack.Government sources said the exercise was not triggered by any credible intelligence about the threat of such an attack, but that it was “prudent planning,” adding: “It gives us the ability to test these systems, and make sure that we learn any lessons.”The approach will echo a similar exercise last year, which tested how the  attack.Separately, Cameron is also set to announce an exchange deal with the US, which will see the UK ship 700kg (110st) of nuclear waste, most of it currently stored at Dounreay, in Scotland, to be processed in America.In return, the US will send supplies of a different type of uranium to Euratom, the European nuclear agency, to be turned into medical isotopes, that can then be used in diagnosing and treating cancer across Europe.Government sources described the swap as a “landmark deal,” adding: “it’s a win-win: we get rid of waste, and we get back something that helps us to fight cancer”.They said by working together in this way, Washington, London and Brussels hope to set an example to other states of the innovative measures that may need to be taken to deal with nuclear waste products in future.“It’s an opportunity for the UK, the US and Europe who show how countries can work together to deal with nuclear waste. It’s an opportunity for us to show some leadership to the rest of the world”, the source said.The nuclear security summit, the fourth and final one held during Obama’s presidency, is aimed at enhancing the safety of domestic nuclear systems — something the US president first discussed in a speech in Prague in 2009, and which he sees as part of his legacy.Since the first summit in Washington in 2010, the states attending have agreed to reduce their stockpiles of potentially dangerous highly enriched uranium – the by-product of nuclear power generation – and strengthened the role of watchdog the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).Over that time, 14 countries have committed to removing nuclear materials from their territory altogether, and many others have pledged to step up security and tackle nuclear smuggling, by stepping up checks at ports, for example.But in , the White House said there was more to do. “We all need to do more together to enhance nuclear security performance, to dissuade and apprehend nuclear traffickers, to eliminate excess nuclear weapons and material, to avoid production of materials we cannot use, to make sure our facilities can repel the full range of threats we have already seen in our neighbourhoods, to share experiences and best practices, and to do so in ways that are visible to friends, neighbours, and rivals – and thereby provide assurance that we are effectively executing our sovereign responsibility,” it said.During the summit, the UK will offer to share its expertise on tackling cyber-crime with other countries. Japan, Korea, Turkey and Argentina have already said they would like to cooperate with the UK on this.Cameron will also commit to spend £10bn this year to fund the world of agencies including the IAEA, on improving the security of civil nuclear infrastructure worldwide.Over lunch on Friday, the world leaders will discuss “scenario-planning” for protecting their nuclear facilities, and preventing volatile nuclear materials falling into the wrong hands.While the main focus is civil security, he will also receive an update on progress in implementing the Iran nuclear deal, which was signed in January, and aimed at preventing Tehran acquiring nuclear weapons, in exchange for the lifting of punitive sanctions.While in Washington, Cameron will also hold a series of bilateral meetings with other world leaders. However, the government sources said he would not be meeting with potential candidates for the US presidency.</content>
<class_name>UK security and counter-terrorism,Defence policy,Nuclear waste,Nuclear power,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T00:01:37+0100</date>
<title>UK and US to simulate cyber-attack on nuclear plants to test resilience</title>
<content>The rival groups challenging to lead the leave campaign in the  are to submit their formal applications to the elections watchdog.The Electoral Commission is charged with designating the lead campaigns for leave and remain, with the chosen teams enjoying major advantages in spending, campaign broadcasts and sending information via post.While it is expected that only Britain Stronger In Europe will apply for the remain designation,  by Vote Leave and Grassroots Out.Both campaigns have emphasised their cross-party support.  such as the London mayor, Boris Johnson, Michael Gove, Chris Grayling, John Whittingdale, Theresa Villiers and Iain Duncan Smith.Grassroots Out has stressed its popularity across the country, staging a series of rallies and claiming to have the support of 2.7 million people, including 2,000 local councillors.It has the backing of Conservative, Labour and DUP MPs, as well as the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage and .In deciding between them, the commission will look at the breadth of support each campaign has, how it intends to get its message across to voters and how it plans to engage with other campaigners on the lead side.The commission must announce its decision by 14 April at the latest.David Cameron said Britain Stronger in  had support “from every corner of the UK” and from backers of each of the main parties, as well as those who support no party.“By contrast, those campaigning to leave the EU are divided into at least two camps, who can’t agree on very much,” he said. “In fact, the only common ground is their inability to tell the British people what would happen if we left the EU. They have failed to answer reasonable questions about what would happen to jobs, prices or our country’s security if Britain left the EU.”Britain Stronger In Europe has released a study from the London School of Economics which, it said, calculated that prices in the UK were £200 less a year per household due to EU free trade agreements, saving the UK £5.3bn a year.The report also estimated that future EU trade agreements with the US and Japan would be worth an additional £238 a year to households in the form of cheaper prices.The claims were challenged by Robert Oxley, a spokesman for Vote Leave, who said independent research had shown that the EU increased costs for consumers.“That’s on top of the £350m we all have to fork out for Brussels each week,” he said. “The EU has been very bad at negotiating free trade deals, hurting jobs and the economy. That’s why it’s safer for Britain to take back control of negotiating its trade deals so it can prosper outside of the EU.”</content>
<class_name>EU referendum,European Union,Europe,Foreign policy,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T07:44:49+0100</date>
<title>EU referendum: rival Brexit groups vie to lead official leave campaign</title>
<content>The mother of a British hostage photographed with an Egyptian plane hijacker who was wearing a fake suicide vest has branded her son’s actions “stupid”.Pauline Innes scolded her son Ben as he arrived back in the UK less than 48 hours after the image emerged of him stood grinning next to a man who claimed to have smuggled a bomb belt on board.The health and safety auditor from Leeds was one of 72 passengers and crew taken hostage by Seif Eldin Mustafa soon after their EgyptAir flight took off from Alexandria on Tuesday.His decision to pose for the snap, which was printed on newspaper front pages, has attracted criticism.As Innes’s mother collected him from Manchester airport late on Wednesday she said: “I don’t know why you did it,” according to the Sun.Mustafa, 59, is understood to have revealed the fake suicide belt soon after the flight to Cairo took off, triggering an emergency diversion to .Innes is said to have contacted his mother soon after the drama began to reassure her he would keep a low profile.However, at some point during the five-hour standoff, the 26-year-old decided to “throw caution to the wind while trying to stay cheerful in the face of adversity” and pose for a picture with his captor.The snap, in which the hijacker can be seen wearing a khaki-coloured fabric belt with a series of pouches wired together, went viral after it was posted on social media.“Mum was very upset seeing me, but I made it safe and sound,” he told the newspaper as he arrived back in the UK. “The past two days have been crazy, unbelievable. But I’m here now and things can get back to normal. I’ll be relaxing at home with Mum,” he added.Mrs Innes told the Sun that he had not posed for a “selfie” with the hijacker, who was described as “psychologically unstable” by Cypriot officials. “You can clearly see that it is not Ben who is taking the picture,” she said.On Wednesday a picture of another hostage posing with Mustafa emerged. It appeared to show a flight attendant, named in reports as Naira Atef, smiling and standing next to him.In an article on social media for the Daily Mail, broadcaster John Humphrys questioned Innes’s decision to pose for the photograph.He wrote: “The photo was the perfect demonstration of this strange new urge to be the star of your own social media show, even in a situation when minutes earlier people thought they were going to die.”A Cypriot court ordered Mustafa to be detained for eight days as he faced charges including hijacking, illegal possession of explosives, kidnapping and threats to commit violence.The incident came five months after 224 people were killed when a Russian aircraft crashed over Egypt’s Sinai peninsula minutes after it took off from the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh. Russian authorities suspect a homemade bomb brought down the Metrojet airliner.</content>
<class_name>Cyprus,Egypt,Africa,Europe,Middle East and North Africa,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T08:45:06+0100</date>
<title>Hijack 'selfie' Briton returns to face wrath of his mother</title>
<content>A police force could become the first in the UK to introduce cats alongside its dogs in the fight against crime after a five-year-old wrote to the chief constable suggesting they should team up. Eliza Adamson-Hopper received a reply from the Durham police chief, Mike Barton, thanking her for the suggestion and saying he would pass the idea on to an inspector. Barton included a drawing of his cat, Joey, on the back of his handwritten letter. Insp Richie Allen, of the dog support unit, has confirmed the force will consider using cats in an as-yet-unspecified role. Allen said: “I can confirm the force is looking into recruiting what we believe to be the first UK police cat. Their duties and responsibilities have not yet been agreed but if nothing else they will become the force mascot.“Of course, if it smells a rat we’ll expect it to catch it.” Five-year-old Eliza, from Burnopfield in County Durham, who has a cat called Mittens and a dog called Susie, wanted to know why the police do not use cats. Her mother, Cheryl Adamson, said: “Eliza has loads of questions for everyone and I don’t always know the answers. We said she could write a letter. “We typed out a letter to the chief constable, she told us what to write, and we said she might not get a response because he is a busy man … When we got a reply it was so sweet.“It was not a bog standard response, it was really personal to her, and we loved the drawing of the cat, it really tickled us. “Then the inspector from the dogs unit sent her a calendar and invited her to an open day.” Since then her daughter has decided to raise funds for the retired police dogs charity . A police spokeswoman told the Guardian it was not an April Fools’ Day prank. Previously, , Chief Mouser PC Tizer, who was responsible for patrolling King’s Cross rail station to keep it rodent free.Globally, this would not be the first time a cat has joined bobbies on the beat. , a former stray, was made an honorary police officer in Kyoto, Japan, after wandering into Yoro police station. He was even given his own uniform. </content>
<class_name>Police,Cats,Animals,Pets,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:00:51+0100</date>
<title>Cats and robbers: police force considers using felines to fight crime</title>
<content>Concerns about the quality of official migration figures have been raised by the official statistics watchdog.The UK Statistics Authority (UKSA) has warned that discrepancies between different sets of figures “could undermine public confidence” in the data.With the next set of figures due in May likely to feature prominently in the European Union referendum debate, the UKSA said any shortcomings in the data must be made clear.The UKSA’s concerns are  (pdf) from its head of regulation, Ed Humpherson, to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) posted on the UKSA website.In it he draws attention to the differences between the ONS’s international migration estimates and figures from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) on National Insurance numbers issued to foreign nationals (Nino). The Nino figures are traditionally higher.“The lack of a clear understanding and explanation of the differences between the DWP and ONS figures has led to speculation about the quality of these national statistics,” he said.“There is a significant risk that a lack of progress in reconciling and explaining the differences over the coming weeks could undermine public confidence in official migration estimates.”Humpherson said the Nino figures were being assessed by the UKSA for compliance against its code of practice and he questioned whether they should continue to be included in the official figures.“It seems clear to me that the issues we have identified to date, including those of coherence with other sources noted in this letter, are relevant factors in considering whether the Nino statistics meet the highest standards of trustworthiness, quality and value, and hence their national statistics status,” he wrote.He added: “The ONS’s May publication will form part of the statistical evidence informing public debate on immigration levels ahead of the EU referendum on 23 June.“Should it become apparent that this publication will fall short of meeting any expectations that it will provide a full picture of the differences between migration sources ... I would expect ONS to make this known publicly as soon as possible.”</content>
<class_name>Migration,Office for National Statistics,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T03:06:44+0100</date>
<title>Differing UK migration data 'undermine public confidence' – statistics watchdog</title>
<content>A woman has been taken to hospital with serious injuries after falling down a lift shaft at a branch of Starbucks.West Midlands ambulance service said she fell approximately 25 ft (7.6 m) at the shop in Solihull High Street.The woman, believed to be in her 20s, suffered a suspected broken leg and pelvis.Paramedics reported the woman tried to use the lift but fell when she stepped through the doors and found nothing there.Emergency services were called to the shop at 12.35pm on Thursday and ambulance staff and firefighters helped extricate her.A spokesman for the ambulance service said: “The woman had suffered probable breaks to her pelvis and leg. After being immobilised and having splints applied, she was taken by ambulance to the major trauma centre at Queen Elizabeth hospital, , for further assessment and treatment.”</content>
<class_name>Birmingham,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:52:42+0100</date>
<title>Woman falls 25ft down Starbucks lift shaft</title>
<content>A 10-year-old boy involved in a car accident was taken to hospital by a fire engine as there were no ambulances available.The boy had been involved in the accident in Telford during the early hours of Wednesday and suffered a head injury, the Shropshire Star reported.A spokesman for West Midlands ambulance service said: “At the time, four emergency ambulances had been delayed by over an hour each to hand over their patients at the two Shropshire hospitals. In addition, ambulance staff were looking after patients in the hospital corridor at the time.“Two ambulances were dispatched to the accident but were stood down when the fire service informed us that they were transporting the patient.”The ambulance service had repeatedly raised the issue of long delays handing over patients with the hospital and local healthcare commissioners and would do so again, the spokesman added.“Whilst on this occasion no harm appears to have come to the patient, it is a completely unacceptable situation that we were unable to respond to an incident such as this,” he said.Debbie Kadum, the chief operating officer at the Shrewsbury and Telford hospital  trust, said the hospitals were dealing with unprecedented volumes of very sick patients at their A&E departments over Easter.The number of A&E cubicles at Telford hospital had increased by 40% but this had not been enough to meet demand, she said.</content>
<class_name>NHS,Health,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:39:52+0100</date>
<title>Boy taken to hospital in fire engine because of lack of ambulances</title>
<content>Channel 4 is marking International  Day of Visibility with the UK’s first transgender continuity announcer.Amy Stanning will take over continuity duties on the station at 5pm on Thursday. Her voice will be heard around programmes including Eight Out of 10 Cats Does Countdown and Alan Carr: Chatty Man.As well as announcing up-coming programmes, Stanning will also talk about her experiences as a transgender person and raise awareness around the day, founded in 2009, to celebrate transgender people and raise awareness of discrimination faced by them worldwide.“I’m delighted that  are celebrating the International Transgender Day of Visibility during primetime TV,” said Stanning, who works for Barclays Mortgages and is co-chair of their LGBT employee network.“Transgender people contribute to all walks of British life and it’s time to recognise their contribution and help people be positive and open about themselves.”Three years ago Channel 4 launched its “alternative voices” initiative which saw five people with communication difficulties join the channel’s continuity team for 10 days, including , who has Tourette syndrome. Dan Brooke, Channel 4’s chief marketing and communications officer, said: “We are always looking for new ways to celebrate diversity on Channel 4. “I’m proud to bring Amy on board she’s the perfect way to mark International Transgender Day of Visibility and build on our work with the Alternative Voices campaign.”</content>
<class_name>Channel 4,Television industry,Television,Transgender,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T11:59:42+0100</date>
<title>Channel 4 brings in UK's first transgender continuity announcer</title>
<content>The husband of a young cyclist killed after being hit by a lorry at a notorious  junction collapsed in tears as the driver walked free from court.Vincent Doyle, 45, failed to spot German postgraduate student Janina Gehlau, 26, in the cycle lane as he manoeuvred his massive Foden truck to turn left at busy Ludgate Circus in central London. Jurors at the Old Bailey were told that he should have been aware she was catching up as he waited for 23 seconds at the red light, having overtaken her just 200 metres before the junction. And if his mirrors were correctly positioned, he would have had her in his sights for three to five seconds before his wheels clipped hers, sending her underneath the vehicle, the court heard. But Doyle denied the charge of causing Gehlau’s death by careless driving on the morning of 17 October2014, and the jury deliberated for less than an hour before clearing him. After the verdict was returned, Gehlau’s family, who sat in court with a German translator, appeared downcast and her husband, Marcel, shook uncontrollably and wept before being led from court.Judge Gerald Gordon said: “I would like it to be made absolutely clear to the family that the verdict of the jury does not imply any form of criticism of Gehlau.” He added that it may be that the differing rules of the road from Germany were “a factor”. In a statement released by lawyers Slater and Gordon, Gehlau’s mother, Andrea Tasic, said: “We are devastated by the verdict and do not feel that we have got justice for Janina. “We would like to thank the emergency services who tried so hard to save her and everyone who has supported us since her death. I miss her so much. She had a great future ahead of her and it was erased in a moment. “I told her I thought the roads were too dangerous when I visited her, but she was an experienced cyclist and told me not to worry, she said it would be fine. My only hope is that this makes people think twice before cycling in London. “Too many families are losing loved ones in these circumstances and action needs to be taken to improve safety before there are any more tragedies.” During the three-day trial, Doyle insisted he always made safety checks and had looked in his mirrors “five or six times” before the green light. He told jurors that he never saw Gehlau frantically waving her arms or heard her shouting before she fell under the lorry, which was described by his lawyer, Alan Wheetman, as “the size of half a house”. The first he knew of Gehlau’s position was after he felt a “bump” and looked in his mirror to see her head sticking out, he said. The grey-haired driver described how he held her hand and pleaded with her to “hold on” before the ambulance arrived to take her to hospital. He said: “At first I was angry, thinking: ‘What is this person doing?’ but once I got closer I saw how injured she was. “I was taking her pulse, chatting to her all the time. I was holding her hand telling her: ‘Please hang on’. We were chatting away. And then she died. She died just as the ambulance got there.” On how the accident had affected him, he said: “I had a nervous breakdown last year. I was in psychiatric hospital for eight months.” Gehlau had been in England for just a few weeks of a three-month trip as she studied for a masters degree and had been visiting the Barbican on the morning of the accident. Her death was one of a number of cycling fatalities in the capital which have raised questions about road safety, and the dangers of lorries turning left on roads in the city centre. The family’s lawyer, Matthew Claxson, of Slater and Gordon, said afterwards: “Sadly Janina’s death is not an isolated case and cycling fatalities are becoming an all too frequent occurrence on London’s roads. “The whole legal process has been very difficult and distressing for the family as they struggle to come to terms with their loss. “They are understandably devastated by the verdict, but hope that if anything positive can come from this tragedy, it is that everyone – cyclists, motorists and pedestrians – pay more attention on the roads.”</content>
<class_name>London,Cycling,Road safety,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:07:52+0100</date>
<title>Husband of cyclist killed by London lorry cries as driver is acquitted</title>
<content>Retailers will take the biggest financial hit from the rise in the so-called national living wage (NLW) as more than 300,000 workers get a pay rise from Friday 1 April.The sector will have to find up to £3bn more a year to pay staff by 2020 assuming it maintains differentials between entry and mid-level staff and spreads the NLW rate to all employees, not just the over 25s they are legally obliged to cover, according to the British Retail Consortium.Analysis by the  (LPC) reveals that retail accounts for just over a fifth of workers over 16 on the minimum wage at present and, together with the hospitality industry, accounts for nearly half of all workers on the lowest pay.Hospitality, which includes hotels, restaurants and bars, is currently the biggest minimum wage employer with 353,000 staff over 16 earning £6.70 an hour – a quarter of the total. Retailers employ 300,000 according to the LPC, or 21.4% of the total.But many in retail are being paid close to the current minimum so that once the national living wage comes in retailers will be the biggest minimum wage employer – with 511,000 staff over 16 – or 23% of the total on the £7.20 an hour rate. While the sector’s wage bill will only increase by 1.5% by 2020 – well below the 3.5% rise for cleaners according to the LPC – the size of the retail industry means the financial hit will be greatest. The pay rises are good news for many on the lowest wages. Already there are signs that the impending arrival of the national living wage has set off a competitive drive for higher salaries, particularly among the major grocers., so that they were reliant on support from benefits such as the working tax credit, also added to the pressure.After , in line with the independently verified living wage at the time,  and  for their workers to a similar level. Tesco, Sainsbury’s, the Co-op and Amazon also upped wages significantly last year.Most major retailers have also opted to spread wage rises right across their workforce, including under-25s who are not covered by the new national living wage rate.But the increases in basic pay have often been accompanied by a squeeze on benefits such as extra pay for Sundays and bank holidays, an end to paid breaks or a squeeze on overtime.B&Q, for example, is the subject of an online petition against its plan to wages.Major retailers say the changes are necessary as they are  from higher business rates, the apprenticeship levy which comes into force next year and the national living wage. Smaller independent retailers say the new wage rates will hit them disproportionately. James Lowman, chief executive of the Association of Convenience Stores, said: “The introduction of the national living wage will have a devastating impact on many of the 51,000 convenience stores in our sector. Over 60% of stores in the sector will look to reduce the number of staff hours in their business and delay investment plans, while for some already operating on the edge of profitability it will mean that they will have to either stop employing staff or close their business altogether.”</content>
<class_name>Retail industry,Minimum wage,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T14:55:50+0100</date>
<title>Retailers will have to find £3bn more a year for national living wage</title>
<content>A woman was rescued from Britain’s highest mountain after attempting an ascent while wearing summer clothes and carrying just a selfie stick, according to reports.Sara Albone, 28, became disoriented and began to develop hypothermia after being caught in blizzard conditions while wearing shorts and trainers on Ben Nevis, it is understood.She was found by chance while lost on the north face of the 4,400ft peak, in Scotland’s Grampian mountains, where several climbers have been killed in recent months.Albone, from Brighton, issued an apology and thanked the team that had to walk her off the mountain when cloud and driving rain made her unreachable by helicopter, .Lochaber mountain rescue team leader John Stevenson said it was ridiculous to attempt to climb the mountain, where the summit remains in “full-blown winter”, without the right equipment or support. “Being irresponsible means others have to go out of their way to help,” he said.Writing on a mountaineering forum, Albone praised her rescuers for being “incredibly brave and kind”, adding: “I think if it had not been for these guys I could have died.”According to reports Albone decided to scale the mountain on the spur of the moment while part-way through a mountain biking tour of .However the keen cross-country runner only had the gear for her bike trip, and not the ice pick, poles and emergency shelter it is advised climbers take with them up the snow-capped mountain.She wrote: “[I had] just the stuff I had packed for the weekend and a stupid selfie stick. I kind of knew I was underprepared, and didn’t actually intend on getting to the top. I just sort of thought, ‘oh I’ve got this far – it’s not too bad – let’s carry on’.”Albone said she intended to take a mountaineering course when she got home to East Sussex.Louis Lander-Deacon, one of the climbers who found Albone, described conditions on the mountain as “absolutely terrible”. “I am sure that if she had not bumped into us she might have died,” he added.The bodies of Rachel Slater, 24 and Tim Newton, 27, from Bradford, West Yorkshire,  on Ben Nevis on 23 March. They were  after failing to return from a climb.On Friday , 32, an experienced climber from Tranent, East Lothian, died after falling on the Aladdin’s Buttress area of the Cairngorms.</content>
<class_name>Scotland,Mountaineering,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T06:37:49+0100</date>
<title>Rescued woman sorry for trying to scale Ben Nevis armed with a selfie stick</title>
<content>Britain’s trading position with the rest of the world has deteriorated sharply with the current account deficit swelling to its widest on record, fanning fears about the sustainability of the economic recovery.News of the ballooning current account shortfall overshadowed  showing economic growth was stronger than first thought in the fourth quarter. GDP rose 0.6% compared with an earlier estimate of 0.5% and 0.4% growth the previous quarter, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS).Experts warned that even that brighter headline figure masked an unbalanced economy with consumer spending being relied on while industry contracted and business investment dropped sharply. At the same time household incomes were shown to have fallen in real terms, casting doubt over how much longer consumers could keep up their pace of spending.It was the figures showing a sharp rise in Britain’s current account that grabbed the most attention and fuelled the debate around the UK’s economic prospects should it opt to leave the EU. The current account deficit reflects Britain’s trade gap with the rest of the world and the shortfall between money paid out by the UK and money coming in. It swelled to £32.7bn in the fourth quarter, equivalent to 7% of GDP, up from 4.3% in the third quarter. This was the highest since quarterly records began in 1955. Economists in a Reuters poll had expected the deficit to widen to £21.1bn.For 2015 as a whole, the current account deficit hit £96.2bn or 5.2% of GDP, the widest since records began in 1948.The Bank of England has highlighted that the  and has expressed concern that in the event of a vote to leave the EU in June’s referendum foreign investors will become more nervous about buying, or holding, UK assets. Chancellor George Osborne, who is campaigning for the UK to remain in the EU, welcomed the growth upgrade by added: “The UK is not immune to risks in the global economy as slowing global growth weighs on our outlook. Today’s figures expose the real danger of economic uncertainty and shows that now is precisely not the time to put our economic security at risk by leaving the EU.” Howard Archer, economist at IHS Global Insight said the widening current account deficit could become an increasing problem if financial markets lose confidence in the UK economy for any reason.“This would make it harder for the UK to attract the investment inflows that it needs to finance the current account deficit and could weigh heavily down on sterling.”He added: “An obvious potential trigger for the markets losing confidence in the UK economy could be a vote to leave the EU in the 23 June referendum.”The widening in the overall current account shortfall came as Britain’s trade deficit worsened and as the deficit on investment income also widened.As exports fell in the final quarter of 2015 but imports increased, the trade deficit grew to £12.2bn from £8.9bn in the previous quarter.The bigger factor, was the deterioration in the so-called primary income deficit. That more than doubled to £13.1bn in the fourth quarter from £5.8bn in the third quarter, mostly on the back of a drop in receipts from direct investment and portfolio investment abroad. At the same time, there was an increase in payments to foreign direct investors.Alan Clarke, economist at Scotiabank explained: “In other words, dividend payments to overseas investors into UK assets have far outweighed the investment income that UK investors have earned on their investments overseas.”“The problem is that the UK economy is outperforming its neighbours (a nice problem to have). The UK’s main trading partners have not grown as fast as the UK – hence the returns on our investments in those markets have suffered. We have invested badly into slow growing markets. By contrast, overseas investors into the UK have done well.”But that picture played down fears over foreign direct investment being hit if the UK leaves the EU, Clarke added.“Where would you rather invest – a fast growing economy like the UK or an economy with persistent disappointments in growth?”The GDP figures showed the services sector, the largest part of the economy, was now thought to have expanded 0.8% in the final quarter, up from the previous estimate of 0.7%. Construction output was also revised up to 0.3% growth from a previous estimate of a 0.4% contraction. Industrial production fell 0.4%.The upward revision to overall GDP meant that for 2015 as a whole the economy grew 2.3%, faster than the  of 2.2%.Echoing recent signs that wage growth has flattened off, the ONS reported that real household disposable income per head fell 0.4% from the third quarter. Spending per head grew 0.4% on the quarter, suggesting people are dipping into savings.GDP per head, which adjusts GDP for the size of the population, increased 0.4% on the quarter, below the GDP growth rate of 0.6%Kallum Pickering, senior UK economist at the bank Berenberg said the latest batch of economic news pointed to an increasingly unbalanced economy and a country that “continues to live well beyond its means”.“These growth patterns suggest that the UK recovery is being increasingly built on sand. Low savings make it hard for households and businesses to ride out volatility. Deficits to drive growth today come at the expense of growth tomorrow,” he said.</content>
<class_name>Economic growth (GDP),Economics,Office for National Statistics,International trade,EU referendum,Global economy,Economic recovery,Services sector,European Union,Europe,Foreign policy,</class_name>
<date>2016-03-31T13:00:44+0100</date>
<title>Current account deficit hits record high as GDP revised higher</title>
